he was crying .
`` wara , '' he said gruffly , `` i 'm so sorry . ''
he did n't remove his gaze from the floor and his hands shook .
`` i can never pay you for what i did to you .
please , forgive me . ''
wara took an unsteady step back and swallowed hard .
alejo was asking her to forgive him .
i 'm petra now .
i 'm here because he forgave my huge debt .
and now it 's time for me to follow in his footsteps .
the words formed very slowly in her brain .
`` alejo , it 's ok , '' she said , then slid down to the warm wood floor in front of him .
`` it 's all taken care of . ''
starting visibly , alejo lifted his head and peered at her with reddened hazel eyes .
`` but i ca n't ? ''
`` i know .
i accept that you ca n't pay .
i forgive you . ''
he let his head roll back towards the ceiling , then faced her again .
`` thank you . ''
he lowered himself down to sit cross-legged as she was , not even bothering to swipe away the raw tears matting his eyelashes .
`` thank you . ''
she struggled to know what else to say to him .
it was one thing to forgive him .
trusting him was quite another .
but what good is forgiveness if it 's only words ?
one day at a time .
and it had to start somewhere .
there was something she still had n't said to him , and it was important .
`` thank you , '' she told him honestly , searching his face .
`` you saved my life .
you gave up a lot to save me .
thank you . ''
alejo blinked , then his face found a hint of the famous martir grin he shared with his father .
they sat there staring at each other for a few minutes , letting the moment sink in .
then alejo broke the silence , voice thick with relief .
`` so , we 'll meet in three months , then .
you 're going to see your parents ? ''
wara paused to consider , then decided to blaze forward .
`` yeah .
maybe you can call sometime , just , you know , to make sure that none of the bad guys have hauled me away . ''
she pressed her lips together and tried to match alejo 's small smile .
`` you are going to be pretty hard to get a hold of out here on the farm with rupert . ''
alejo blinked fast , obviously pleased with her idea .
`` should i give you the phone number to my parents ' house ? ''
she asked .
now alejo 's mouth flickered into a full-blown smile .
`` naw .
do n't worry , wara . ''
the warm white light of the lamp glinted off his eyes as the two of them sat facing each other , she with a spark of curiosity , he with eyes making a solemn promise .
`` i 'll find you . ''
33 grape after the ostriches had been fed and all the fences repaired and in working order , alejo carried a wooden porch chair into the luxuriant grape arbor .
he plopped down in the chair , slinging his feet up on an overturned five gallon bucket he left inside the arbor for the times he was too lazy to bring a chair .
it had been two months since alejo had visited his family in lima , then flown with them to a medium-sized city in italy , where they would make their new home .
since he had come back to rupert 's farm , alejo had been busy studying the bible with rupert and doing odd jobs around the property .
usually he was done feeding the huge birds by about five .
it was now winter in bolivia , leaving him an hour before sundown to sit out here and think .
it was crazy , but a lot of the time he thought about her .
he had talked to wara a few times at her parents ' house , short , uneventful conversations that still made him really happy .
in only three more weeks , he would see her face-to-face , and they would take a trip together to decide if they would work with ci .
as to the destination of the trip , rupert had kept silence , not even wanting to hint .
in reality , there were only nineteen days left until alejo would talk with wara in person .
less than three weeks .
alone behind the grapevines , alejo could n't pretend that he had n't counted the days a few times .
besides wara , no one should have the number of the nondescript little cell phone alejo carried in his pocket .
so when it rang now , he startled .
the number was n't hers , though .
alejo warily punched the talk button and pressed an ear to the speaker .
`` alejo ?
is that you , che ? ''
the hairs on alejo 's arm stood on end .
`` stalin ? ''
`` who else ?
oh my goodness , it 's been so long ! ''
alejo was stunned .
`` how did you get this number ? ''
`` relax , che ! ''
stalin 's tone was not cautious at all .
`` i 'm not with them anymore .
i 've run away , to join the circus , as they say .
as to how i got this number -- -do n't ask .
let 's just say since i 'm the only living member of the prism who knows you 're alive , i 'm the only one who thought to have a look around for you . ''
`` you left the prism , '' alejo stated warily , crossing one leg over the other on the five gallon bucket .
`` yeah , che , i should have listened to you earlier .
after you told me what was going on-about the poor kids being recruited and going over to do holy war-well , i just did n't feel right .
and gabriel ?
man , i ca n't even talk about that .
i still ca n't believe gabo 's gone .
but then that day , you know , at pairumani ? ''
stalin 's voice cracked and he swore softly .
`` alejo , i was a loser and a coward .
i just stood there .
i let ishmael shoot my best friend for being an infidel . ''
alejo found himself grinning , despite the contrition in stalin 's voice .
it was so good to hear from a friend .
`` yeah , well , there was n't much you could do , '' alejo said .
`` we would have been a pretty pair , both lying there with holes in our heads .
you did the right thing in the moment .
and from what wara tells me , you saved my life later , dropping me off at the hospital . ''
alejo could n't bring himself to mention the fact that gabriel had also been there .
`` yeah , so what happened to her ? ''
stalin asked curiously .
`` she go off back to usalandia to live happily ever after with some gringo ? ''
alejo snorted .
`` yeah , something like that .
she certainly was n't about to stay here with me to live happily ever after . ''
stalin may be out of the prism , but there 's no way he 's going to get any info out of me about wara .
`` so you got out ... what about lzaro and benjamin ? ''
`` both sent to another country in south america .
they 'll stay out of bolivia for a while , i assume . ''
`` and ishmael ? ''
alejo asked .
`` i have absolutely no idea . ''
alejo could picture stalin shaking his head , scraggly hair dragging over his bulky shoulders .
`` i hightailed it out of there after we got to asuncion , and took my parents with me .
they 're safely tucked away in japan ?
i know you wo n't tell . ''
the conversation cheered alejo up more than he could have imagined .
stalin was alive and well , and possibly dining every evening on sushi and rice .
alejo assumed that ishmael khan would n't be showing up in bolivia for some time , after an anonymous call alejo had made explaining that the khan foundation was spiriting away bolivians to fight as mujahedeen , in the name of scholarships and higher education .
surprisingly , stalin kept in touch ; a week after his phone call , alejo 's cell shimmered with the alien sound that announced an arriving text from his old friend .
`` guess where i am ? ''
the little screen read .
alejo was debating between `` las vegas '' and `` disneyland '' when a second wave of sound announced stalin 's answer .
alejo clicked the sound off and read : `` at mass .
yes , that 's right .
i 'm sitting here in spain at mass with about five little old ladies . ''
then , following quickly , `` and they 're all dressed in black .
is that creepy , or what ? ''
alejo pulled out the side keyboard , which he had used maybe once , and keyed in , `` despite the creepiness of black , are you finding what you 're looking for ? ''
the image of stalin , probably dressed in a t-shirt that accented his beer belly and ratty old jeans , kneeling on the thin wooden rail at the back of the cathedral pew was extremely amusing .
it was also fascinating , given the fact that stalin believed he already knew everything about god and had said he would rather have his carnal pleasures .
alejo was sure the fact that he was nervously repeating mass along with five wrinkly , age-encrusted spanish women meant that stalin was rethinking whether he was going to pay the price .
`` not yet ?
there 's something here , but i still do n't know if i 'm ready .
but che , i 'm thinking about it . ''
another message came .
`` i was very impressed with you , willing to die for what you believe . ''
alejo hoped this was a good sign .
`` but then again , so was gabriel , '' stalin added .
`` i 'm still looking , che .
god have mercy ?
he knows i 'm looking , but the women here in spain are so beautiful ? ''
alejo typed , `` do n't you want to talk on the phone ?
my fingers are cramping . ''
`` ca n't .
time to sing .
the priest is giving me the eye .
talk to you later , alejo . ''
alejo slid his phone back in his pocket with a smile and leaned his head back towards the sunshine .
34 lilac a country had never seemed so empty and hollow as spain did at that moment to stalin gomez .
while mom and dad had their hearts set on a little house in japan , stalin had known immediately upon arriving to get them settled in that japan would never be for him .
`` creepy , very creepy '' were the only words that described for him the temples with dull golden statues smiling pacifically at him as he passed .
the mlange of slippery sea creatures tacked to wooden planks with wicked looking nails would have been eerie enough at some sort of taxidermy for water creatures display .
the fact that it was in a part of the market meant for grocery shopping had given him the heebie-jeebies .
with all the money he had pilfered from his bank account , stalin bought his parents a three bedroom house in a cozy neighborhood full of foreigners , a shiny silver lexus , and hired two servants to clean , cook , and fill the house with furniture .
then he had gotten back on the plane to a more pleasant destination , planning on sending his parents tickets to come visit .
they were n't that old yet , after all .
spain seemed like a perfect pick to settle down and hide .
it was warm , they spoke spanish , and rumors were that bathing was topless .
at first , the city of cordoba , where stalin had rented a nice flat , had seemed very cosmopolitan and smacked of europe .
all the excitement soon died away as he found himself lumbering down the gray sidewalks day after day , with no job , no steady girlfriend , and no friends to speak of .
the conversation he had with alejo that day in the coffee shop about jesus kept ringing in stalin 's ears , ever since he had realized that for alejo , the whole jesus thing was more than just an intellectual debate about which religion was right .
the exact moment stalin had realized this had been when alejo did n't flinch with a gun to his head and had said he would n't change his mind about jesus being god .
that had been a very , very heavy day .
today , stalin 's heart felt heavy as well , and as he left the massive cathedral where he had been at mass he bought a strawberry ice cream cone from a vendor on the sidewalk .
then he turned down one of the ancient , narrow side streets to meander his way in the general direction of home .
there really was no hurry ; in spain , no one went to bed before midnight , and at the moment it was just after seven .
stalin took a large lick of the sickly-sweet ice cream , the tried to clean a sticky drop of pink off his lips with the paper-thin napkin wrapped around his cone .
all of a sudden , he stopped , eyes falling upon a little sign with a picture of a white dove that said libreria la paz .
below , in smaller letters , it said , `` libreria evangelica '' .
a christian bookstore .
and a non-catholic one .
something about the store drew stalin towards its rugged stone steps like a piece of lint up the funnel of a vacuum cleaner , but he hesitated .
he imagined himself walking into that store to browse books and finding himself swarmed by a pack of hunchbacked crones in black dresses and head coverings , who would then drag him over to a gold-crowned image of the virgin and force him to recite the rosary until he was born again .
the glass door squeaked quietly and a little girl wearing a hot pink short set skipped down the steps , followed by a middle-aged guy in a polo shirt who could have been her father .
there you go ?
people younger than eighty come to this store .
maybe it has something for me .
realizing he had been holding his breath , stalin drew in a gust of air and then nearly shrieked , feeling the cold drip of melting ice cream soak his fingers .
he hurriedly licked all the way around the cold cone , then each finger one by one , glancing around guiltily to see if anyone was watching .
finally , stalin pulled himself together and clumped up the stairs to the bookstore , some part of him praying to god that there would be some books here worth reading that could explain to him more about what it was that would n't let him just put jesus at the back of his mind .
a bell over the door jangled softly as stalin entered , and he was relieved when the man behind the counter only waved politely at him , then turned away to let the customer browse the shop in peace .
it was a small bookstore , with white wooden shelves filled with different titles lining the walls and a small section for music and t-shirts .
ignoring everything but the books , stalin began at one end , noticing right away that the volumes seemed to be rather thin .
remembering to keep up on licking his ice cream so it would n't flood the bookstore 's red carpet , stalin cocked his head sideways to better scan the titles , getting more disgruntled as he went along .
in one section , he found books with titles such as `` a new you in forty days !
`` , `` god can control your diet '' , and `` exercising for jesus '' .
puzzled , he moved on to the next rows of books and saw several covers featuring blown-up photos of people with white smiles with flashy clothes .
`` god wants you to be rich ! ''
proclaimed one book with the image of a slick hispanic man in an expensive purple suit .
stalin 's brows drew together as he read , `` the ten-day plan to secure wealth '' and `` plant the seed and it will grow '' .
a thin rivulet of strawberry ice cream escaped down the side of stalin 's cone and over his hand , splatting onto the carpet below .
a curse was on the tip of stalin 's tongue , until he remembered where he was and gulped , glancing over at the man behind the counter .
seeing the guy safely reading , paying no attention to stalin soiling his store and cussing , stalin turned back to the books , pretty confused .
he had studied christianity in depth during his masters and phd , of course , along with all the other religions .
they may not have been the most exciting reading in the world , but he remembered a plethora of thick volumes about theology and christian thought .
those books were not just a little weighty ; they were the kind you could use for weight-lifting around the house , if you ever did such a thing .
where were those kinds of books here ?
the shiny books stalin saw lined up around this bookstore seemed to be about anything except christianity .
was n't there anything here that just told about jesus ?
plop !
stalin stared in horror as the mushy pink mound that was left on top of his cone slid onto the floor with one fluid motion , falling with a soundless whoosh onto the cherry red carpet .
now he did swear , albeit under his breath , then jerked his head up as he heard a soft chuckle , coming from nearby .
spiky , white high heels turned into long legs , then a flowery skirt and a tight , lilac-colored jacket .
in front of stalin stood the most beautiful woman he had ever seen-and that was saying a lot .
her hair fell to her waist , and was chestnut brown with shimmers of red .
with twinkling eyes , the woman was regarding stalin with amusement : first his face , which he intuited must be a shade between lobster and beet red , and then the flattened pile of melting ice cream staining the carpet .
`` too hot for ice cream today , '' she remarked , and then twisted her waist gracefully to pull a packet of tissues out of her purse .
`` do n't worry ; this carpet is so worn no one will ever notice . ''
and just like that , she scooped up the fallen ice cream with a wad of tissues and tossed it into a trash can standing against a pillar in the middle of the small room .
stalin felt his mouth hang open as she raised her hand and he saw long , perfectly-manicured nails painted lilac and silver .
most importantly of all , he saw no wedding band .
`` i 'm shannon , '' the amazing creature said , holding out one perfect hand towards stalin .
`` my father always loved ireland so he gave me an irish name . ''
her accent told stalin she was all spanish , however .
he forced himself to close his mouth and reached out to shake her hand with one of his own sticky ones .
many smooth things to say flooded stalin 's mind at the moment , but unexpectedly , all of them seemed out of place here in the middle of this christian bookstore , surrounded by the surreal sound of churchy music floating from a stereo .
instead , he said , `` do n't they have any books here that talk about something ?
serious ?
i feel like i 'm in the self-help section of some bookstore .
where can i find books about something like ?
the atonement , for example .
or the theological arguments for why jesus was divine . ''
stalin found himself taken aback when shannon chuckled again , a deep , full-throated laugh .
`` you wo n't find anything like that in here , '' she said in a conspiratorial tone .
`` if that 's what you 're after , the man you want to talk to is my father . ''
stalin blinked in surprise .
`` he 's the pastor of an evangelical church here , '' she explained , `` but he 's also quite a scholar .
my daddy has written three books , and he has a whole room for a library with all kinds of fat books about everything you can imagine .
there are a lot about the atonement . ''
stalin felt himself staring .
`` have you ever read any of them ? ''
`` a few , '' shannon flicked her hand dismissively .
`` ok , quite a few .
i 'm working my way through them .
i 'm getting my phd now and my thesis is quite ?
theological .
so i get some studying time in , yes . ''
shannon pulled a purple cell phone out of her purse and glanced at the time .
`` daddy 's waiting for me at home now , so i 've really got to go . ''
heart sinking , stalin pressed his lips together so his jaw would n't hang open again , gawking at shannon .
then , in a magical , wonderful moment of awe , stalin saw shannon 's full lips open again and the words that she said were : `` why do n't you come home for dinner tonight ?
a guy like you , interested in learning more about jesus and theology ?
my daddy would love to talk to you . ''
stalin felt as though the flaming arrow of cupid had pierced his chest .
`` i 've really got to run , though , so make up your mind quick . ''
shannon placed the phone into her purse and half-turned towards the door , beginning to walk out .
stalin took in the skirt , the legs , the high heels , and one millisecond was all it took for him to propel himself forward , like a dog hooked to a leash , towards shannon and her daddy the pastor who would tell him all about jesus .
the end s 0 cotton candy sky tehran , iran , 2017 to sami , the white-hot explosion of sun that staggered him as the blindfold was ripped from his eyes was more brilliant than the glory of any starry spotlight where adoring fans screamed his name .
a rubber boot connected with his back as the rush of light hit his wide-open eyes , slamming him to the pavement .
rivers of radiant colors stormed his vision as sami lifted his head , and he vaguely made out the city park and the crowds gathered , absolutely silent .
his life had been lived surrounded by multitudes , but today no one reached frenzied hands towards him in the hope that his own fingers would briefly connect with theirs between wild chords strummed on the electric guitar .
no one was rapturously snapping photos of him with their cell phone camera , plotting to show the blurry concert images to their friends .
sami 's eyes cleared enough to realize that he was encircled by uniformed police bearing the thick plexiglas shields that were synonymous with riot control .
they formed a writhing barrier between him and the crowd , an ominous warning to anyone who tried to capture the scene on a cell phone camera .
but still the crowds stayed , fixed eerily in place behind the police line , silent .
for nearly ten years sami had heard his fans ' hysteric screams and cheers , accorded to him as the lead singer of iran 's most popular rock band , ashavan .
today , under a baby blue sky sprayed with cotton-candy clouds , the last sound sami would hear from those fans , warily planted behind the police in the park , was their silence .
today , while children raced up the slide in the distance and the ice cream man with his cart strolled by gaping , sami would be publicly beheaded .
kneeling on the asphalt , sami closed his eyes and felt as if he were watching himself from the sky , only a spectator to this gruesomely comic event : a thirty-year-old literature major-turned-rock star , sentenced to beheading in the park for a list of unpleasant crimes .
but sami knew why he was really here .
something rustled behind him and sami snapped back to reality .
a guard yanked on the cuffs around his wrists , checking if his arms were secured .
sami 's ankles were also chained together , as they had often been in the four months he had spent in the maximum security prison .
`` get up , '' the guard ordered , dragging him to his feet .
a slimy smudge of perspiration marred the young guard 's right eyebrow as he avoided the prisoner 's eyes .
it was more than obvious he did n't want to be here .
`` over there . ''
a dozen feet away , circled by a dreary ring of hoary stones , a cement block protruded from the park square .
a murky stain began at its heart , spreading snaking tentacles across the surface of the block and down its sides : lifeblood , spilled here under the sun after afternoon prayers in the past .
sami stumbled to his bare feet , barely aware of the sensation of his soles on the burning pavement .
once he had worn trendy italian leather shoes and jeans from paris that had cost three hundred euros .
today , sami 's feet were bare and bleeding .
he wore tattered cotton pants , stained from the floor of his cell , and a simple white t-shirt .
the shirt hung loosely over his frame , muscles wasted away from days of doing nothing but praying in his cell instead of working out at an elite gym club .
even so , he still towered over the two guards at his side , tall and broad-shouldered .
a collective gasp rise up from the myriad of dark eyes staring at him in the park and sami thought that probably the people gathered here today barely recognized him .
sami did n't mind .
the old sami was gone , and he was a different person now .
the new sami did n't mind standing barefoot in dirty white , sans ray-bans and without beautiful women following his every move .
in a few minutes he would be dressed in pure white , screaming the name of the one who had made him able to sing in the first place .
`` c'mon .
i 'm sorry . ''
the young , sweaty guard who had a death grip on sami 's arm was named hourmazd .
`` they 're waiting , '' hourmazd said reluctantly .
`` you have to come now . ''
sami felt his feet slap across the hot , soiled square in slow motion .
next to the chipped concrete chopping block , the executioner waited in a crisp black uniform and aviator ray-bans , gripping a saudi arabian scimitar .
at attention a few steps behind , two doctors in white coats stood watching the proceedings .
one of them held a dove gray tarp , folded neat and square ; this would be to wrap sami 's body .
at the prison , it had been explained to him that after the beheading his body and head would be carried off by the doctors , who would then reattach the two items and bury sami in full accordance with islamic burial laws .
none of sami 's family had any intentions of burying their wayward relative in the christian manner .
at the moment , whether his dead body would be laid in the ground facing mecca or not was the last thing on sami 's mind .
standing before the executioner 's block , sami 's eyes blazed across the gathered crowd one last time , not surprised to see neither his mother nor his father here to witness the gory sight .
several feet behind one of the policemen 's opaque shields , a pale face peeped out from under a nondescript black chador veil .
she came .
sami 's heart surged within him and he stared at her , taking in the last beauty he would ever see in this place called earth .
he met her weeping eyes calmly , intensely begging her not to cry and give herself away .
i 'll see you again , my sister .
and then time for scanning the solemn crowd was up ; hourmazd and the other guard forced sami to his knees .
hot fingers grabbed his temple like a vise , twisting his head to one side , plastering one cheek against the icy concrete .
a filmy coating of dust and pebbles had settled onto the block , and sami 's hand instinctively jerked forward to swipe the scratchy debris off his cheek , then pulled up short against the biting metal cuffs .
urgent hands still held him down , kneeling , and sami realized he was facing the crowd , saw that ava was looking up towards heaven .
i could have married you .
sami swallowed and his adam 's apple grazed the abrasive stone .
we could have gone away to germany or canada together .
we could have had six or seven little iranian babies , who would have grown up hearing about jesus every day and playing whatever kind of music they wanted , for him .
you would end up wide-hipped and disheveled from all those children , and i would get bald and wrinkly .
but we would sit together by the fireplace every night with our children , singing with the guitar and loving each other .
a ream of black cloth descended in front of sami 's vision and cinched in a hard knot behind his skull .
the blindfold pressed his lashes tightly against his cheeks , leaving him blind , each beat of his heart echoing slowly in the darkness .
the pressure of the hands against his head and back disappeared and an unearthly hush descended upon the park .
the charges against him were read out loud , a list of things sami could never imagine becoming .
rape .
treason .
worship of satan a mullah began to pray loudly in arabic , and sami waited with his temple to the icy block .
in prison he had been warned ; if he moved , the blade could miss and he would n't be killed at the first fall of the scimitar .
a dove cooed overhead .
heart pounding in his chest , sami waited in the darkness , knowing that in just a minute more he would see the light .
1 karate gone bad she laid the guitar case on the smooth tree stump among the pines and cried , knowing only the trees would hear .
a few tears later she stopped , scrubbing her face on her soft tiered skirt , never one for prolonged weeping .
she let her eyes run over the battered case , balanced on the ancient stump like an offering , then carefully opened the dented clasps .
the honey-colored taylor guitar still nestled in emerald velvet .
this had been noah 's guitar .
wara sniffed loudly and smiled , remembered him grinning from the stool at the front of the caf , playing this guitar and singing his heart out .
she cradled the taylor across her lap and began to pick her way through a few chords .
it had been three months , and it still hurt .
his arm had been around wara when the bus went over the ravine , but she was thrown out the window to safety .
noah had n't made it .
since then she had been here in montana , living with her parents on the ranch that was her childhood home .
life as a missionary in bolivia was over , dreams smashed to pieces with the shattered glass of the bus where noah died .
a new chapter was about to begin , and honestly , wara really did n't think she was ready .
staying here on the bench in the little sheltering circle of trees on the ranch was sounding better and better all the time .
a sharp crack sounded in the foliage .
wara tensed and huddled into the comforting familiarity of the guitar , totally aware that her reaction to the sound was overkill .
this was a ranch , after all .
squirrels and birds did live in the trees that surrounded her , and yellowed leaves were constantly crunching their way to the ground now that fall was in full swing .
but after the bus accident in bolivia she had been kidnapped and nearly killed by the muslim group who had bombed her bus .
so unexpected sounds made her a little nervous .
that was ok , was n't it ?
`` holy cow ! ''
she shrieked without meaning to , nearly dropping the guitar on her toes .
because all of a sudden , defying her expectations that the little noise would end up being a stray squirrel scuttling around in the trees , a solid male figure emerged from the shadows .
she fizzled with adrenaline , vision full of a broad-shouldered man , skin the color of a mocha latte , wearing a black shirt and brown corduroys .
`` holy cow ! ''
she gasped again , less fear and more irritation lacing her voice now .
the intruder was now out of the shadows , holding up two tan hands in a gesture meant to calm her down .
the dark curls that had hung around his collar were gone , but those clear hazel eyes were unmistakable .
all the seven martir children had them .
`` wara .
it 's me , '' he said , only adding more fuel to the storm of adrenaline and annoyance lashing her insides .
alejo martir .
was here .
at her house in montana .
the ex-leader of the prism , the group that tried to kill her .
he had been behind the bomb that killed noah on the bus .
and then he had left everything to behind to save wara .
`` you ?
you scared the beejeebers out of me ! ''
she managed , feeling herself scowl .
she had never imagined she would see him here .
sure , in bolivia they had both been recruited by a man named rupert to work with an organization called ci .
wara had known she would see alejo again , next week when they set off on an exploratory trip to make their final decision about working with ci in the future .
but for goodness sake , she was supposed to have the weekend still to deal with this before seeing alejo again !
`` what are you doing here ? ''
she demanded .
yes , this was the friendly midwest , but wara recognized not the tiniest hint of welcome in her voice .
now , she was just plain irate .
and scared .
some of the spark in alejo 's hazel eyes faded .
`` last week we said we 'd meet up on the trip , since we 're both headed the same way .
and in bolivia i said i 'd find you .
and here you are .
in montana . ''
well .
because alejo had asked her to forgive him , they 'd talked on the phone for a few minutes every couple weeks since bolivia .
it gave wara the opportunity to say something decent to the brother of her best friend nazaret , instead of simmering with anger and resentment towards him for what he had done .
`` see you soon , then , '' alejo had said over her cell a week ago .
`` i-i 'm sorry , '' wara exhaled slowly and closed her eyes .
they opened to alejo crossing the space between them tentatively , then offering a hand in greeting .
they cheek-smooched mechanically , bolivian-style , and alejo cautiously took a seat on the other extreme of the bench .
he looked younger with his hair shaved , face smoothed of many of the tortured lines that had marked it three months earlier .
the light in his eye flickered , begging wara to let it come back to life as she had promised him through forgiveness after what he 'd done .
she could let the light live , or blow it back out .
her heart hurt as she crossed her arms over her gray henley top and tried the hint of a smile .
`` i 'm ?
really sorry .
i just really was n't expecting you . ''
`` i know , '' alejo 's lips twisted into a smile .
`` i just thought i 'd drop by so we could take the trip to morocco together .
i could carry your stuff .
and i , uh , thought i could see where you live , maybe meet your parents . ''
wara fought for polite words , all the while nearly swallowing her tongue .
`` meet my parents ? ''
she blinked hard against the memory of alejo 's first connecting with her face , the sudden gravity as she spun into the dirt and collapsed .
alejo pressing the hunting knife to her throat and dragging her into the forest .
this guy was a killer .
and her best friend nazaret 's brother .
and , insanely , her possible future co-worker .
a little panicked , her gaze flitted around her little sanctuary of trees , the cedar bench that had been there as long as she could remember .
beyond was the house she had always known , her childhood bedroom , the living room where she 'd ripped open presents on christmas and drank coffee over a good novel .
`` ok , '' she blurted .
`` my parents are n't here now , though .
they 're both still at work . ''
`` fine . ''
alejo leaned back into the bench , seemingly content just taking in the shades of changing autumn leaves .
wara suddenly felt smothered , faced with the prospect of the next several days of his company .
what in the world were they supposed to talk about ?
she eyed him sideways , but he just sat there with that zen-like tranquility , meditating on nature .
it was making her crazy .
`` i 've been taking karate .
per your instructions , '' she informed him just to break the silence .
alejo 's eyes lit up in surprise and he tore his gaze from the nearly-naked trees .
`` good .
i hope you never have to get in a fight , but i feel better knowing you 're learning some tricks to keep up your sleeve . ''
alejo raised one eyebrow and grinned dangerously as he eyed wara 's long plaid skirt .
`` think you can show me some of what you 've learned ?
in that ? ''
`` why not . ''
wara frowned .
`` right now ?
like , fight with you ?
are you serious ? ''
`` sure .
i 've got to see if you 've been slacking . ''
his tone softened , and wara suspected he did n't really think she had learned anything but had only assigned her to learn martial arts to keep her mind off the unpleasant past .
`` besides , '' alejo 's tone was quiet yet challenging .
`` i do n't think you 'll turn down the chance to give me a few good kicks . ''
suddenly he was off the bench and a few feet away , feet planted firmly on the ground .
`` c'mon , do n't be nice . ''
arching an eyebrow that said she really did n't plan to be , wara slowly stood up , pulling a rubber band off her wrist to twist her hair into a rough ponytail .
in the three months since she had left bolivia , her dark hair was growing long and straight , looking a little more polished than the uneven cut she had sported before .
`` now , '' alejo was grinning solemnly , `` i do n't want to be too mean to you , either , since this is our first fight .
so for today i 'm just going to use beginner skills .
just show me what you 've got . ''
with that , alejo sidestepped around towards her back so fast she barely had time to register that he was going to try to grab her from behind .
whoa !
not ready !
wara 's eyes widened as she racked her mind for what she was supposed to do in this situation .
she had been going to classes every stinking day , after all .
even if alejo had told her to do karate to make her feel better , it had worked .
whacking and kicking things had ended up to be a very entertaining way to spend the last there months .
the correct kick flashed into her mind as she was already beginning to execute it out of instinct .
she managed to twist away from alejo just in time , feeling the thickness of his arms brush by her cheek .
ha ha !
apparently all the hours of practice were paying off !
but now alejo was coming at her again , ready to take a swing at her head .
moving easily , wara ducked to the left just in time , then rolled to the ground and shot a strong kick upward , barely missing alejo 's belly .
it appeared her muscles really were stronger from all those hours spent at okinawa karate studio .
`` man ! ''
he eyed her with something she could almost call appreciation .
`` you 're fast .
you could hold me off for a while with those lightning kicks .
unfortunately , because i 'm bigger , i can do this . ''
before she even knew how it happened , he had hauled her to her feet and had her against a near-by tree .
there was no way she could escape his weight , and his steely grip on her elbows tightened painfully if she even attempted to move .
`` no , no ! ''
she shrieked , feeling the rage of losing and the powerlessness of not being able to do a thing about it .
blame it on being an only child , but wara hated losing .
`` get off of me ! ''
she grunted , and flung her head backwards just where she imagined alejo 's eye socket should be .
she actually saw a few white stars as her skull connected with his face , but the satisfaction of hearing him swear under his breath was more than worth it .
but that was her last move .
the hold on her elbows tightened even more , and alejo pressed her farther into the tree , his cheek plastered against hers .
`` ok , you win , '' she pronounced , speaking carefully since her lips were only centimeters from the tree bark .
`` you did really well , though . ''
the hiss of alejo 's breath in her ear was quite annoying .
`` i 'll show you how to do this hold i 've got your arms in .
someday , i hope you 'll be able to kick my rear in a fight ?
well , at least if i have the flu . ''
wara glared , hoping he could see her scowl from the side as he pulled away from her and released the death hold on her arms .
a sharp crack sounded in the clearing .
wara 's gaze jerked upward as a flurry of dust and bark rained down on her head with the dull whap of an object slamming into the tree above her .
`` down ! ''
alejo growled into her ear .
her knees buckled as his weight slammed into her and they crashed to the ground .
her first thought was : it 's a bullet .
someone is shooting at us !
alejo remained on top of her , and she flipped her head towards the source of the sound , more than a little frantic .
surreally , alejo had whipped out a gun and was in position to shoot anything that came into sight from behind the trees .
but instead of another bullet , a low voice cut through the clearing .
`` get away from her , or you 're a dead man .
next time i wo n't miss . ''
wara 's mind fuzzed over , unbelieving .
this could not be happening .
alejo 's forearm tensed around the gun as a lanky man in a denim jacket appeared , half-sheltered behind a golden oak tree .
his eyes narrowed and he trained an unwavering shotgun exactly at alejo 's head .
`` do n't shoot ! ''
wara screamed at the man holding the gun .
`` it 's ok !
!
do n't shoot ! ''
she elbowed alejo roughly , face sizzling with chagrin .
`` get off ! ''
she gasped .
`` i ca n't breathe !
he wo n't shoot us ?
it 's just my dad . ''
rachel moschell met and married her husband , eduardo , in cochabamba , bolivia .
they have three adorable children and currently live in beautiful cochabamba .
rachelmoschell @ hotmail.com im not crazy !
christopher david petersen copyright 2011 christopher david petersen smashwords edition climbing on longs peak the diamond , estes park co ( im the dark spot 1500 ft above the valley ) see that photo above thats just before all hell broke loose while climbing on longs peak in estes park , colorado .
now , i hate to be one for over-drama , but when i say all hell broke loose , im talking fire and brimstone kinda hell .
some quick background first : at the point in the photo that my friend isaac had taken the picture , we had been climbing for nearly twelve hours and were now roughly 1500 feet above the valley floor .
we had started up a steep snow face well before dawn and after day break , the skies looked clear and the winds were light .
it was really a beautiful day .
by mid-morning , that had all changed .
the skies clouded over and with it , brought winds , plummeting temperatures and light snow .
no biggie , right ?
you say for most mountaineers , a few flurries normally wouldnt increase the pucker factor .
i wont go into the definition of pucker factor but trust me , a high pucker factor really is not good .
as it was , we were looking at a low pf , so i really wasnt too worried , but i did keep a watchful eye on the deteriorating conditions .
shortly after that photo , all hell broke loose .
the skies became angry and violent .
the temperatures hovered around zero and the light snow opened up into a full blown blizzard .
as the snows accumulated in the upper reaches of the mountain , huge pockets of that light fluffy white stuff would break loose and race down the cliff in the form of spindrift avalanches .
aside from the obvious ( death ) , spindrift avalanches really suck because all too frequently , they pour off the upper face above you and down the back of your neck .
has anyone every dropped an ice cube down your back ?
well , that would be a welcome relief to a pile of snow .
fortunately , due to my superior intellect , i was able to recognize the repetitive event after only being caught in them five times .
before the sixth dowsing of snow , i pulled my hood over my head .
i know , i know pure genius .
isaacs and my plan for the climb was simple .
we had planned to traverse the cliff a hundred feet more ( from that point in the photo ) , then climb the upper rock face of the diamond for fifty feet or so , then climb onto a steep snow slope above .
once we reached that snow slope , it would be easy ( but dangerous ) climbing to the summit .
no problemo right ?
or so we thought .
i have to admit .
by the time we were making that traverse to the diamond , i was tired .
i hadnt worked on my conditioning as well as i should have prior to the climb and the higher elevations were really wearing me out .
to make matters worse , i didnt bring enough food or water , so my energy reserves were pretty low .
to my relief , isaac led the traverse while i hung back and paid out the rope .
it felt good to hang off the cliff by a bunch of tiny slings instead of making that dangerous traverse , out on the sharp end of the rope as its called in climbing .
i hung under a large block that sheltered me from the spindrift avalanches above , while i watched isaac pick his way across the cliff .
little by little , he alternated his hands and feet as he moved sideways , relying on the hand and footholds to hold him to the steep cliff .
hanging there in the cold , the winds howled .
i could feel the energy draining from my body by the minute .
i shivered uncontrollably now and shook out each hand to knock some warmth back into them .
time seemed to move so slowly as i watched isaac cross that traverse .
every so often , isaac placed a piece of climbing gear into the rocks and threaded the rope through it .
if he fell , hed only drop the length past the climbing gear instead 1500 feet below .
halfway across the traverse , isaac stopped .
he was now at a point called the notch couloir .
the notch couloir was a wide break in the cliff that ran nearly to the top of the mountain .
it was far less steep and if viewing it from a distance , it could even be considered a mini-valley carved at the top of the cliff .
i watched isaac stand like a statue , far out in front of me .
he didnt move .
he didnt look up .
he didnt look around .
he just stared straight ahead .
come on , sally .
grow some balls and move .
im freakin freezen here , i remember thinking to myself as i watched him stand idly by .
just then , the world went white before me .
an enormous spindrift avalanche careened off the cliff face above me and completely blocked my view of isaac .
holy mackeral , i yelled out only i didnt say mackerel .
no sir , that was a lot of snow , enough to fill up a couple of very large houses .
i felt the rope go taut and pulled hard to take up the slack .
i was scared .
i could feel that sickening feeling in the pit of my stomach as i envisioned isaac being swept over the cliff by the avalanche .
a moment later , as the last of the snowy dust floated on by , i could see him .
there was isaac : still standing where i saw him last .
the rope had only gone taut due to the weight of the snow as it rushed over it .
isaac had not been swept away .
dude , you see that ?
i yelled out to isaac , but he never heard me .
i saw isaac look up toward the notch couloir , then shuffle quickly across .
facing the mountain , he moved his right foot to his right , then moved his left foot over to match it .
over and over , isaac repeated the sequence , shuffling across the cliff as he continued to stare up toward the top .
as he moved , i paid out the rope , holding him in case he lost his footing and slipped off the edge of the cliff .
i was his lifeline , but i had no idea if i could hold his weight in the event of a fall .
watching him cross , i looked down the full length of the 1500 foot cliff .
we were high .
due to the deteriorating conditions , we needed to move faster and place less gear on the route for protection during a fall .
i hadnt really thought about it before , but having time to analyze the scene , i now realized that a fall over that cliff could almost certainly rip me from my stance .
i felt damned scared , but buried my fears and concentrated on my job .
moments later , isaac made it to the other side of the snowy slope .
suddenly , i heard a loud whooosh .
isaac was gone again .
i pulled hard on the rope and locked off my belaying device .
then i saw it through the falling snow .
the mother of all spindrift avalanches creating a white cloud of snow that rushed down the snowy face and over the cliff .
oh crap !
i remember saying in my mind , but again , i didnt say crap .
i braced myself again for the tug that i figured would be isaac .
seconds later , the rope went slack .
as the snow clear out , there was isaac , still clinging to the rocks on the other side of the snow slope and he was grinning ear to ear .
duuude , did you see that ?
isaac yelled across the cliff face to me .
the rush of beating the tempest had his adrenaline pumping .
i could see he was scared , yet invigorated .
ok man , youre up next , he yelled out to me .
a sick feeling swept over me .
it was indeed my turn to run the gauntlet .
i looked around me in a futile attempt to avoid the inevitable , but finally isaac yelled back over to me again .
duuude , you got ta hurry .
lets go , he yelled out to me with deep impatience in his voice .
quickly i dismantled the anchors holding me to the mountain and started my way across the rock and snowy cliff .
hand over hand , i reached for anything that i could grab , each time , double checking that isaac was taking up the slack .
the rocky face was cold and now had a light dusting of snow on it .
my thin polypropylene gloves were great when the temps were in the forties , but now the temps were hovering around zero , rendering the gloves almost useless .
my fingers were so cold , they were cramping as i reached for my next handhold .
i was now become increasingly worried i wasnt going to be able to hold on much longer .
my survival instincts kicked in and i dug deep .
throwing caution to the wind , i decided to make risky moves across the cliff face , hoping my hands wouldnt fail before reaching the snowy slope of the notch couloir .
i moved quickly and deliberately , but with awkward lunges that continually held me off balance .
my heart was pumping and i could feel the anxiety building as i closed the distance on the snowy slope to my right .
a minute later , as my hands were giving out , i made my final step onto the snow slope where i fell forward and rested .
good job dude , now cross the couloir , i heard isaac yell to me as i lay and rested .
as if in a dream state , i heard him yell to me , and you got ta time the avalanches .
what ?
i yelled out in disbelief .
up till that moment , i hadnt realized the amount of snow that had been falling .
at some point out on that cliff , the snow increased in intensity from heavy to savage .
the snowflakes were large and accumulating at a rate of nearly two feet an hour .
with that much unstable snow above us , the spindrift avalanches were now rolling down the notch couloir every fifteen seconds .
crossing the 50 feet wide couloir would take all of that fifteen seconds , if you moved fast .
if you didnt , the result could be disastrous .
that much snow could easily sweep you off and over the cliff .
perfect , i remember saying to myself .
no sooner than i wisecracked , i watched a wall of snow barreling down at me as it roared through the snow slopes narrow valley above .
quickly , i dug my hands and feet into the snow and hung on .
i watched for only a moment , then just before impact , i buried my head down into my shoulders and braced myself for the terrifying wave of snow .
at first , the snow flowed over me like a gentle stream of water , but that didnt last long .
a split second later , i felt the full force of the wall of snow that raged over the top of me .
it taunted me , laughed at me , mocked my insignificant strength as it pushed and dragged me lower from my dug-in position .
i could feel my hands and feet being ripped from their anchors and i focused all my energy on them , trying to embed them further in the hard packed snow .
as i began to slide , i felt the unmistakable tug of the rope on my climbers harness yanking me sideways as isaac fought to keep that malevolent force from dragging me off the cliff .
nooo , i remember screaming in my mind as my feet broke free of solid land and floated in space .
i was going over the cliff edge the cliff edge that perched 1500 feet above the world .
this was really going to suck .
suddenly , all went quiet .
as quickly as the avalanche came , it went .
i immediately crawled higher and leapt to my feet .
i gave a cursory glance at the cliff edge just inches below me , then over at isaac .
he was smiling duuuude , you almost cratered , man !
he yelled to me .
then he added , lets go , now !
i knew i had only seconds before the next wave of snow came .
isaac pulled hard on the rope , snapping me out of my foggy state and i started off across the open snow slope .
the snow was deep now , almost past my knees and i dug deep into my reserves to plow through the heavy mess .
forty feet , thirty feet , twenty feet i powered across the slope like a steaming locomotive , focusing only onmy destination .
i saw isaac look upward and i knew disaster was on its way .
harder and more determined , i plowed across the last feet steps .
twenty feet , ten feet , then i heard the roar of the wave from above .
i looked up and saw the next wall of snow roiling as it charged down the snow slope .
suddenly , i felt a hard jerk on my jacket , only it wasnt from above it was sideways .
isaac reached out , grabbed my jacket and hauled me into safety .
i looked back and watched my deep footprints vanish in a moments blink as the heavy wall of snow obliterated any signs of my existence .
dude man , you were almost a statistic pretty cool , huh ?
isaac yelled to me over the roar of the avalanche .
yeah cool , i replied grimly .
isaac had set up a bomber anchor system and for the moment , i felt fairly secure .
i looked over to isaac and he was now looking at a rock wall behind us .
ok man , we got ta climb up this rocky face , then step around the corner to the diamond .
thats where it gets a little sketchy .
well do that short pitch of rock , then step off that and onto the snow slope above .
sound ok ?
i remember isaac asking me .
i remember in my mind saying , hell no , its not ok. im cold , tired , scared and im pretty sure i need a new change of under-britches .
yup , i replied dryly through gritted teeth .
what were we thinking ?
the freakin diamond on longs peak in the middle of winter what were we , insane ?
!
!
whats the diamond you ask ?
only the mother of all rock faces in colorado .
its nearly 2000 feet of sheer and overhanging rock , that only the best and most skilled climbers attempt to climb .
fortunately , we were only planning on doing the very last fifty feet of it .
at least that was the plan .
that last section was supposed to be relatively easy climbing , but now , it was getting dark and the snows were really accumulating on the rocky surfaces that we were depending on for handholds .
hold me , i want to check out the diamond , isaac said to me .
i paid out the rope as he worked his way lower toward the cliffs edge .
once there , he grabbed a rocky handhold and extended himself out over the 1500 foot drop off .
he looked down for a moment , then to his left to survey the upper face that we were about to climb .
he stared at it for what felt like an eternity .
well ?
i shouted out over the howling winds .
isaac pulled himself back over land and worked his way back up to me .
no way , man it aint happening .
that whole face is covered in snow , isaac said .
we got ta find another way up .
any suggestions ?
yeah , sh # t my pants , then use my ice axes to climb up the snowy mess in front of us , i suggested .
isaac looked up at the wall of snow , rock and ice that stood between us and the upper snow slope twenty feet higher .
if we could just get above it , the summit would only be a few hundred feet more of easy snow climbing .
isaac turned to me and said , ok , after sh # tting your pants , go for .
i done sh # tting you got me , i replied dryly .
i took out my ice axes , looped the lanyards around my wrists and approached the mess in front of me .
for those who dont know what an ice axe is , it is a miniature pick axe .
you swing the pick into ice and pull on the handle to climb higher .
its that simple .
i brushed the heavy snow off the rocks and searched for a handhold .
as i placed my hand on a nice blocky surface , it quickly slid off .
ice a thin layer of ice had now glazed the rocks surfaces .
it was no use .
using my hands alone just wasnt going to work .
undaunted , i decided to use the pick of my ice axes to try to climb higher .
i placed the front point into a tiny crack and pulled hard .
it held .
i pulled on the axe handle and moved higher as isaac paid out the rope .
this was scary climbing , with a pf ( pucker factor ) of about an 8 .
ice axes are used for thick ice where the front point of the axe sinks deep into ice , giving you a secure hold .
now , my axes front points were only held to the rock by shear gravity .
if i moved the wrong way , they could easily just pop off the rock and id fall not good .
i moved up a few feet to the outer corner where the blocky face above met the face of the diamond .
gingerly , i placed my axes on the glazed rocks and pulled hard , trying to get them to stick .
i then peered out around the corner .
isaac was right .
that diamond was literally covered in snow .
i looked up at the corner i was now climbing .
a few feet higher , it appeared that the texture became more blocky and easier to climb .
the problem was that id have to straddle the corner with one leg on the blocky face and the other on the face of the diamond .
id be hanging , literally , 1500 feet above the valley floor by only the tiny points of my axes .
got me ?
i yelled to isaac over the winds .
isaac must have seen the fear in my eyes .
he smiled encouragingly and yelled , youll be ok. my stomach churned as i looked down through the falling snow .
it was almost dark and i could barely see the large blocks of snow on the valley floor , far below .
my hands sweated even while they froze to the axe handles .
i was scared damned scared !
pf = 10 i reached up and scraped off some snow above me , looking for a good placement .
feeling around , i located a tiny crack and slipped the point of the axe into it .
as i weighted it , i moved my right foot out onto the diamonds face .
with half my body hanging out over 1500 feet of air , i was now straddling the hairy edge of my raging fear .
i didnt want to look down i couldnt really .
something in my subconscious mind wouldnt allow me to do it .
suddenly , a wild blast of arctic wind slammed into my body , rocking me from my stance .
my feet skidded momentarily , then one popped off its placement .
quickly , i found another foot hold , but then again , another gust of wind slammed into me , knocking both feet loose .
in an instant , i was now dangling from my ice axes over the 1500 foot cliff , swinging wildly in the wind .
fear roiled inside me .
i lost my breath as i frantically searched with my feat for any type of purchase .
fumbling , freaking and fatiguing , i was running out of strength and running out of time .
i needed a miracle .
bam !
another gust broadsided me .
my left axe wobbled and popped out of its feeble placement .
oh my god !
i remember saying to myself .
is this it ?
is this how im going to die ?
i felt a tug then another .
isaac anticipated my fall and was now doing his best to reel in what little slack in the rope he could find .
i felt my body lunge sideways toward him .
he was nearly pulling me off the cliff .
as i flailed in the air , i made a desperate attempt to hook my axe on anything that would hold .
isaac tugged again and drew me in from the corner .
i reached for the blocky face and i scrambled my feet to find something to stand on below .
suddenly , my foot found something a nob , a tiny nob .
i stepped on it and immediately pushed hard forcing me closing to isaac .
for a moment it held then it didnt .
i sprung from the cliff once more , dangling again , wildly thrashing in the wind .
i could feel the veins in my neck pulsating with savage fear .
what felt like hours were mere seconds but it was enough to drain me of all mental and physical strength .
i could barely hold on any longer .
isaac tugged hard .
i made another desperate lung with my free hand .
the axe caught an edge and stuck .
my feet found a stance .
for a moment , it was over .
i found a respite .
isaac had somehow hauled me off the face of the diamond , pulled me around the corner and i was now standing a few feet from him on the blocky face above .
out of breath , out of strength and out of my mind , i jump backward and dropped to the snow slope next to isaac .
i collapsed in my tiny crater and rested .
duuude , watch out man , avalanche !
isaac hollered out .
moving on instinct alone , i rolled onto my stomach and dug my frozen hands into the deep snow as i planted my boots in below me .
i buried my face in the snow and waited .
the thick violent wave , rolled over the top of me as isaac stood firmly and held me with the rope .
i fought hard for my position , but was no match for the forces of nature .
with very little strength left , i was ripped from my position and dragged down-slope toward the edge of the cliff .
abruptly , my slide came to a stop as the snow fought to push me further .
i felt the wave of the avalanche dissipate and i looked up to investigate my predicament .
there , standing with teeth clenched , stood isaac .
with his arms outstretched , he hauled back on the rope and prevented my slide off the cliff .
you just going to lay there lollygagging all night ?
isaac shouted over the wind .
quickly , i jumped to my feet and plowed through the deep snow , ascending the short distance between us .
so , what do you think ?
wan na give it another shot ?
isaac asked , grinning ear to ear .
if i wasnt so tired , id kill you right now .
so what ?
now youre gon na wuss-out when were so close to the summit ?
isaac teased .
yes , i replied bluntly .
good call lets get the hell out of here , isaac responded in grave tone .
at that point , i was too tired to do anything but belay him back across the snow slope .
darkness had finally come and the snows were raging now , reducing the visibility to near whiteout conditions .
isaac ascended higher on the slope and waited for the next avalanche to pass through .
even before the rush had dissipated , he started off to the other side .
i paid out the rope through frozen finger as he plowed his way through the deep snow .
forty feet , thirty feet , isaac moved with determination .
he was nearly to the halfway mark , when i heard him scream over the wind .
hold me !
just then , isaac was caught in an avalanche .
the blizzards intensity had heightened , dumping even greater amounts of snow onto the upper regions above us .
the resultant snow created spindrift avalanched in greater quantity and ferocity .
isaac jumped to the ground and burrowed in as quickly as he could , but it was too late .
the wave of snow rolled into him , knocking him backward and dragging him down the mountain .
hold me , hold me !
i heard him scream out , now barely audible twenty feet from him .
i pulled hard and watched in desperation as he continued to slide toward the edge of the cliff .
as his slid , isaac rolled over onto his stomach and pounded his hands and feet into the snow , desperately trying to anchor himself to the slope .
downward he slipped : twenty feet , fifteen feet , ten feet toward the edge of the cliff .
his boots seemed mere feet from going over .
as the wave slowed , so did isaacs descent .
he jumped up and tried to swim higher up the slope .
seconds later , he jumped back down once more and buried his limbs into the snows around him .
i pulled hard on the rope , holding him against the inevitable .
like a malevolent entity , the snow raged over the top of him again , threatening him , punishing him for his presence on the mountain .
as isaac fought for his life , he began his downward slide toward the cliff .
fifteen feet , ten feet , five feet .
i watched in horror as his feet broke through the crust of snow that defined the cliffs edge .
isaacs feet were now dangling in air .
like a man swimming through mighty river rapids , isaac flailed his arms and nudged his knees higher .
then , as quickly as the avalanche struck , it was gone .
isaac leapt to his feet and lunged through the snows as he fought his way to the far side of the snow slope .
he was safe .
its a cake walk !
your turn dude !
isaac yelled from the other side .
the gods of nature smiled down upon me .
i timed the avalanches correctly and sprang across the snow-slope like a gazelle .
i remember the look of relief in isaacs eyes as i stepped beside him , barely making it past the next avalanche in series .
nice night for a walk , eh ?
he asked lovely , i replied in pleasant tone .
for the next five hours , isaac and i worked our way back across the mountain , then down the long and steep snow slope that lead to the valley floor .
fortunately for us , the blizzard slowed quite a bit and the spindrift avalanches all but disappeared .
by the time we got back to our camp , it was after midnight .
we had been climbing for almost 20 hours straight .
ive told this story before and usually receive the same reactions : head shakes and the standard verbal remonstrations , why would you do that ?
are you freakin crazy ?
well , all i have to say is that a crazy man wouldnt have dangled from a solitary ice axe , 1500 feet above the ground , petrified beyond comprehension .
nope , a crazy man would have let go .
im not crazy .
ps : years later , my friend isaac , tangled with another avalanche while climbing alone .
sadly , he never made it out alive .
thanks for reading .
if you enjoyed the short story above , please read the following sample chapters of tear in time ( tear as in torn ) .
tear in time christopher david petersen copyright 2011 christopher david petersen smashwords edition tt : chapter 1 chattanooga , tennessee alton park region june 8th , 2005 life and destiny stood for one last moment , perfectly synced in time .
never again would the world see the past as they remembered , as one death would change the worlds destiny forever .
-- - -- - -- - -- - -- - trae williams leaned to one side as he sat on his mothers decrepit front porch and watched his sister play in their front yard .
lena williams , an energetic eight-year-old , raced back and forth across the worn lawn as she chased after tiny moths that had hidden themselves on the blades of grass .
with each swipe of her hand , she expertly snatched the tiny white targets out of midair , then released them back to the world safely .
oh yeah !
trae , did you see that ?
lena asked proudly .
damn le , youre like a ninja or something , trae replied .
beaming with pride , lena replied , too bad mom cant see my skills .
shes working , le .
shell be home in a couple hours .
maybe you can show her then , trae answered .
moms always working , lena said disapprovingly , then added , too bad we dont have a dad like sharices , next door .
then mom could stay home too .
le , you do have a dad .
he just dont come around no more and sharices mom dont work cause shes lazy , trae replied as delicately as he knew how .
lena stopped running and sat down next to trae .
do you ever see your dad , trae ?
lena asked sincerely .
not for a long time .
not since before he went to prison .
that was before you were born , trae replied .
oh , lena said simply .
do you miss im ?
nah .
he wasnt around much , even before he got sent up , trae answered .
well , i miss my dad , lena replied .
damn , le , you never even seen im before .
how could you even miss im ?
trae blurted out in quick reaction .
i just do , traeim sure he misses me too , lena replied .
trae knew his sister was hurting from her fathers rejection .
hoping to take her mind off her pain , he searched for anything to distract her .
hey , le : check out those moths over by the street .
bet you cant catch em all , trae said , with a challenging smirk .
bet i can , lena replied , laughing .
immediately , lena sprang to her feet and darted to the edge of the road , both hands sweeping through the air as she lunged for more moths .
trae watched her for a moment , then became distracted as an older buick with faded paint slowly drifted toward the stop sign at the beginning of their street .
unremarkable at first , the long length of time spent at the stop sign made the old sedan a conspicuous sight .
trae focused more of his attention on the car .
something just wasnt right .
he squinted hard as he tried to see through the darkened , tinted windows , but it was of no use .
the occupants remained a mystery .
trae began to feel uneasy .
the old buick was literally parked at the stop sign for what now felt like an eternity .
he glanced over to lena , then back at the suspicious car .
a knot in the pit of his stomach began to grow .
le , come here for a minute , trae said in nervous tone .
just a minute , trae .
i almost caught em all , lena replied , indifferent to the world around her .
trae saw the brakes release from the old buick , then quickly stop again , almost as if by accident .
he looked up the street to see if the vehicle had intended on pulling out but reconsidered due to another passing car .
strangely , there were no other vehicles in sight .
lena , come here , trae said .
hearing trae use her full name , lena stopped and stared at her brother for a moment .
she could see the peculiar look spread across his face as he turned back toward the mysterious buick .
trae , whats the matter ?
lena asked innocently .
dunno .
that cars been there a while .
maybe you should go in the house for a minute , trae replied , now feeling the anxiety of the moment .
ahhh , lena sounded out in protest .
i dont want to go inside .
its just a car , trae .
besides , i can take care of myself , lena stated proudly .
uh huh , sure you can just get in the house , trae responded bluntly .
just one more m. lena began , but was cut short by the revving of the buicks engine .
lena , get in the damn house now !
trae shouted loudly .
suddenly , aggressively , the old buick released its brakes and stormed around the corner .
with tires squealing and smoke billowing from behind the car , the old sedan charged up the street toward them .
oh no , trae murmured to himself , almost in sobbing tone .
with little time to react , trae sprang to his feet and hurried toward his sister .
lena stood paralyzed in confusion .
she knew something was wrong , but was too young and naive to fully understand traes actions .
trae watched in horror as the buicks dark tinted windows began to lower .
in seconds , his worst fears were realized as the occupants extended their guns out from the windows .
with deafening sound , their automatic weapons came to life .
as bolts of white light streaked from the ends of the gun barrels , trae lunged for lena , knocking her to the ground .
he instinctively rolled on top of her to protect her as a hail of bullets tore up the ground around them .
as the faded buick roared past , trae and lena lay motionless on the front lawn , their minds and bodies unable to react .
as time seemed to slow , trae could almost count the bullets as they exited the guns .
one by one , each bullet miraculously missed it mark .
trae looked into his sisters eyes .
she had not been hit .
suddenly , he realized they both were alive and had made it through the drive-by shooting .
quickly , trae leapt to his feet , pulling lena up with him .
the sight of the two still alive spread quickly to the driver of the car .
in an instant , he slammed on his brakes and brought the old buick to a quick halt .
throwing it in reverse , he immediately roared backward down the street toward trae and lena .
seconds later , the driver slammed on the brakes once more and brought the heavy vehicle to a quick stop .
trae grabbed lena around the waist and sprang from the edge of the road .
like the stride of a gazelle , he bounded across the front lawn with amazing speed and agility , his adrenaline pumping at full capacity .
as the faded buick came to a stop , all its doors were flung open and four young men exited the vehicle quickly .
with their guns still drawn , they wasted no time in continuing their task .
trae leaped to the top step of his front porch and felt a sharp razor-like object strike his left side .
before the first bullet could even register , a second bullet struck him in the right shoulder , rendering his arm useless .
instantly , lena dropped onto the porch , trae collapsing beside her .
an eerie quiet spread over the neighborhood as the four thugs reloaded .
knowing this was their only hope of survival , trae crawled to the front door and tried to wrap his fingers around the lower corner .
with his hand covered in blood , they slipped off the edge of the door .
le , get in the house stay low , trae ordered .
lena , scared and crying , lay beside her brother , unable to move .
lena , get moving now !
trae shouted .
im scared , lena whimpered .
ill block you .
go now hurry up !
trae assured confidently .
nodding reluctantly , lena quickly stood up and pulled the front door open as trae moved to shield her from the four men nearby .
instantly , a roar of bullets unleashed a swath of destruction across the front of the house , breaking windows and knocking shingles from the siding .
as lena began to enter the house , another bullet entered traes lower back , knocking him forward against the door , closing it momentarily across lenas body .
trae rolled to his side and dropped down onto the deck of the porch once more .
trae !
lena cried out in fear and disbelief .
lena , get inside .
go , now !
trae said , his voice now barely audible .
no , i can help you , lena replied with determination .
before trae could protest , lena reached down and grabbed him by his shirt .
she pulled with all her might as trae pushed with his feet .
suddenly , lena exhaled abruptly and sounded a guttural moan , as a bullet struck her in the chest .
immediately , she slumped to the ground , then rolled over on top of trae .
with both victims down , the four thugs ran back to the waiting car and sped off .
once again , an eerie quiet swept over the neighborhood as the neighbors , one by one , ventured out into the warzone .
further south , along signal mountain , dr. phineas morgan stood on his wooden deck .
perched high above the valley floor , he stared out toward northern chattanooga and tried to shut out the images of carnage that had just taken place.from his location a few miles away , he could not see the muzzle flashes , nor did he hear the gunshots ; but strangely , he knew exactly where the shots were fired and who they were fired upon .
sadly , he checked his watch : 10:30am .
in a moment of solemn respect , he uttered a few simple words , forgive me lena .
your death will save thousands .
turning away , he stared out over the city and spoke .
the dominoes of destiny are now tumbling ... godspeed , david .
t t : chapter 2 chattanooga , tennessee , june 7 , 1862 8:30am the tennessee river quietly flowed south and west as it made its way past missionary ridge , toward the city of chattanooga .
the april rains were now a month past and the wild and raging torrent that threatened to breech the swollen banks was now a gentle lazy river that quietly meandered its way through the valley .
the muddy water that had angrily lapped the rivers banks receded some , leaving heavy , waterlogged brush and debris drying in the morning sunshine.soft and tranquil , the water trickled past the fallen branches that scraped the surface of the river , catching any unsuspecting object that dared to tempt its grasp .
flowing placidly south into the city , the river touched the edge of civilization , then abruptly changed course and headed north , past signal mountain .
several miles later , changing course once more , it looped around the mountain and continued its previous direction south , carrying with it the tiny bits and fragments of an industrialized city hard at work .
sitting patiently on an elevated boulder , a young boy hung his makeshift fishing pole over the water in an attempt to catch his breakfast .
looking toward the city , he could see the tall smoke stacks that emitted the evidence of men toiling at work .
a light , gentle breeze blew across the valley of high plains grasses , carrying with it the fragrance of fresh cut hay and wildflowers .
the breeze brushed past his face , filling his tiny nostrils with the scent of nature , and sending warm contentment throughout his body as the sun shined down upon him .
he reveled in his independence as he envisioned other boys suffering through school while he enjoyed his day of truancy .
further up river , leaving the city limits , a raft made from hastily hewn logs of birch were haphazardly strung together with cord and vine , creating an unstable , yet functional mode of travel .
dirty and bedraggled , the two aged trappers floated downstream , extending into the water , long poles made from pine saplings , skillfully placed to navigate the many bends in the river on the way to their next destination .
inside the city limits , at the sharpest bend in the river , a small force of confederates guarded the main dock and prepared to unload supplies .
in the morning sun , under the direction of the regimental captain , the men formed a human chain that led from boat to horse-drawn wagons .
hand over hand , they passed the goods and ammunition from one soldier to the next in sequence , until the final soldier arranged and stacked the supplies neatly in the back of the wagon .
at this hour of the day , the sun sat lower in the cloudless sky , warming the temperatures to a comfortable seventy degrees .
if it were not for their thankless duty to task , the soldiers would normally have enjoyed the balmy climate .
as it was , their heavy labor created torrents of salty sweat that streamed down their faces , and soaked through their cotton shirts and heavy gray uniforms .
when the wagon had been completely filled , the driver snapped the reins to the team of horses and started off to their encampment , whereupon the next driver in line took his place for loading .
beyond the dock , a local merchant swept off the elevated wooden walkway in front of his general store .
a small cloud of dust rose in the air as he briskly cleared away the caked mud that had collected between the wide spacing of the wooden boards that ran the length of the street .
at the rear entrance , a young man helped load heavy sacks and other supplies into a waiting wagon to be delivered to a local resident .
further up the boardwalk , the blacksmith and livery were hard at work , attending to the needs of the community as well as those of the confederate officers that had entrusted their belongings to their care .
at the center of the industrious town , off the open green , the one room schoolhouse bustled with activity and the sound of childrens voices , as they recited passages pulled from the important authors of the day , such as twain , thoreau , dickens and blake , each childs voice as distinctive as the passage they read .
beyond the main thoroughfare , on the secondary and tertiary roads , tiny houses dotted the roads leading out of town .