he gritted his teeth .
fine .
he turned to me .
jazell , youll aim for the belly while we hold it off .
if you cant get an arrow in before i can cut off the stinger , then ill have to do it myself .
fine boss dude , i said with a snort .
seth ducked and charged the creature , his sword held out behind him .
jason flicked some knives into his wrist and flung them at the creature .
some hit their mark , which was signaled by the creature roaring out in pain , others fell into the dirt .
emily danced close to it , spinning fire from her fingertips .
the creature raised a leg and swatted at her but she just twirled away .
the stinger narrowly missed seth , and i saw him stumble back in surprise .
he swung his sword at the stinger .
it sliced through and the creature screeched so loud i was afraid everyone would hear it .
the stinger fell on the ground and dark blood oozed from the cut .
now jazell !
seth yelled to me .
i notched an arrow and took aim at the thrashing belly .
i pulled the string back and released it .
the arrow whizzed through the air and sunk into the creatures belly .
it shook and fell to the ground .
seth ran from underneath it right before it crushed him .
he turned around and studied it .
then there was a horrible sound , like ripping metal .
the belly of the creature seemed to open up and winds picked up .
seth threw down his sword as the wind sucked at him .
he tried to keep himself from being pulled in .
i ran up to him with emily and jason right behind me .
the winds were so powerful i started to slide toward the body , before i was even close enough .
seths knuckles were white in the effort to hold himself down .
get back , he ordered .
get back or well all- he didnt get to finish his sentence because his sword came loose and we all were sucked into the black void of the creature .
*** i hit the ground so hard my breath was knocked out .
i laid there , sucking in painful breaths and staring at the sky .
there was something different about it , even though it was gloomy .
there was more than gloom and sadness in the air this time , it was something cold , like death .
i shivered because the ground was so cold and hard that it chilled me to the bone .
seths head blocked out my vision .
hey , you alright ?
i sat up and seth helped me up .
i rubbed my sore back and looked around , taking in the dead looking trees and shadows .
where are we ?
i dont know , jazell .
the creature must have been a setup to bring us here , he replied .
i think i know who did it .
it doesnt take a rocket scientist to figure that out , seth , i pointed out .
i looked around .
where are the others ?
seth went pale .
i dont know jazell , they arent here .
theyre just gone .
my stomach twisted into a knot .
we had always been a group of four and now it was just the two of us .
the ghost girls words came back to me .
the four of you were chosen because of your unbreakable bond , but even that can be broken .
you are strongest when you are together , but dont let yourselves be separated .
kojas had separated us because he already knew that .
the girl had warned us for a reason .
she had known that kojas was going to try to split us up into groups so that we would be weak .
i watched seth pace back and forth , nervously running his fingers through his hair and drumming the hilt of his sword .
i can also tell you to be careful about kojas ; he 's tricky and will use your emotions against you .
he 'll find a way to get you to come to him instead of him coming to you .
the girl had told us more than we had thought .
maybe kojas thought we would both imagine that he did something to the other two so that we would come running to him .
i had a feeling that emily and jason were okay and just as confused as us .
that also meant that kojas knew as much , and maybe more than us .
*** emily pushed herself into sitting position , ignoring the sharp pains in her elbows and knees .
jason was leaning against a tree nearby , tossing a knife from hand to hand .
she saw a deep , red scratch on his left cheek and the way he winced every time he moved his right arm , she could tell she must have injured it .
do you know where the others are ?
she asked him .
he shook his head .
no , theyre just gone .
were separated ?
she said nervously .
yes , he replied .
what do we do ?
why are you asking me ?
she demanded .
youre the one who comes up with plans .
emily paced back and forth , trying to think .
where were seth and jazell ?
were they okay ?
more importantly , where were they ?
i dont know , she said finally .
i just dont know .
oh no , jason said nervously .
when emily doesnt know , the world ends .
do you wish now that you were at home , curled up with a book ?
yes .
*** seth , i said , calm down and think .
we cant stay here forever , and pace.seth didnt stop and he started mumbling under his breath .
i walked up and pushed him around .
seth , you have to think .
kojas did this on purpose , hes trying to weaken us by splitting us up .
he wants us to go running to him .
i know what hes trying to do , its driving me crazy .
the nerve of this guy .
faery , i corrected him .
hes not a guy , hes some demon faery .
calling him guy makes it sound like hes just a normal human .
does it matter right now ?
he asked , through clenched teeth .
i looked away .
i guess not .
we should move , he said .
i want to find out where we are and where the others are .
were going to find them and i swear by the bible , if kojas hurt them , im going to kill him myself .
seth !
he shrugged .
its too late now jazell , i just swore by the bible .
kojas means business and if he wants this to be a war , ill give him a war .
then he stormed into the trees and disappeared .
wait , seth !
i yelled and ran into the trees .
i scanned the trees .
seth !
seth where the- a hand clamped down on my mouth and i spun around , knife in hand .
seth dropped his hand and pushed past me .
stop yelling my name , jazell , or youll tell the whole world that im here .
my arm dropped and i slid the knife back in its sheath .
i followed seth through the trees .
this time there were less of them and the only ones that around us looked half dead .
the bark was peeling off and i could see the tree branches leaning towards the ground .
the air was cold and heavy , like a mound of snow on your shoulders .
the trees parted to show a cliff .
we walked up to the edge and the wind whipped at my face .
a feeling of dj vu came upon me .
i knew where we were because i had been here before .
seth , i was here in my dream , the one with kojas and the dwarf , i said .
his eyes widened and he looked down at the ground below , obviously trying to imagine what it had looked like .
i had seen it and i was seriously scarred for my life .
you sure ?
he asked .
you know that this means that kojas was here , so he cant be too far away .
dont get your hopes up .
i saw him once and i have no intention of being near him anytime soon .
he sat on the edge , the wind tossing around his hair .
it was going to be seriously wind-blown later .
i sat down next to him and i was trying to forget the dwarfs mangled body .
i shook and hugged myself .
are you cold ?
he asked , his voice full of concern .
i just shrugged and squeezed my eyes shut .
i saw kojas glowing eyes and sword , the dwarf , his armies , the ghost girl , the dark woods and her haunting voice .
it all crashed down on me , the weight of the whole situation .
we were being hunted , i could die .
oh boy , this is what happen when i think things out .
you are cold , he stated .
dont deny it ; youre shaking like a leaf .
wait i dont like that analogy , youre shaking like a mole rat .
do mole rats shake ?
i asked .
he rolled his eyes and wrapped an arm around my shoulder .
we sat there in silence and i leaned on his shoulder .
we both stopped shivering as we stared at the sky .
seth , im scared , i whispered .
what happens if something goes wrong ?
nothing will go wrong , he said fiercely .
i wont let it happen .
i closed my eyes .
i keep seeing what happened that night .
itll go away , he said .
there was a long silence .
this is too awkward and i dont like the silence .
its not normal for us .
i laughed .
someone make a joke quick !
okay , he said .
this feels like those weird movies where the boy puts his arm around the girl and then something comes out of nowhere and eats them both .
i laughed so hard i gagged .
ive never seen that kind of movie .
i did and it was lame .
i smiled and twirled a leaf in one of my hands .
maybe everything was going to be okay after all .
*** hurry up jason , youre so slow !
emily yelled at him .
jason walked the rest of the way up the hill and bent over to catch his breath .
we 've been walking all day and you 're not tired ?
nope , i 've got dancer muscles .
jason sat on the ground .
well , i have artist muscles and those are in my hands .
emily rolled her eyes .
then walk on your hands .
no way !
he said .
fine , then do n't complain .
she climbed into a small tree that was near the cliff she had spotted .
she leaned back and let out a sigh of relief .
her legs were killing her but she was n't going to tell jason that .
he got up and sat at the base of the tree .
you had to take the good tree ?
she motioned around .
there are plenty of trees to pick from jason .
so pick one .
he mumbled something and closed his eyes .
emily shook her head .
he was too stubborn sometimes .
emily stared at the sky and then she knew what he had said .
she looked down to say something but jason was fast asleep .
he had said he was n't going to leave her alone .
*** jazell , maybe we should try to go down there , seth said and nodded to the ground below .
i shrugged .
why ?
it might lead up somewhere .
plus , if jason and emily see it too , they might go down .
it 'll be easier to find each other .
okay , i said and stood up .
i brushed the dirt off my pants and followed seth , who was walking off to the side .
he went down to the left of the ledge and followed a steep path .
i walked behind him and had to dig my heels in to avoid from slipping down .
the path ended and seth had to jump down to reach the bottom .
he landed gracefully but almost tripped .
i walked up to the edge of the path and jumped off .
i flung my arms out to steady myself .
seth grinned at my clumsiness and waited for me to walk up to him .
i wacked his head with the back of my hand , making his hair stick up .
he smoothed it down and we walked across the flat ground .
the ground had spots of grass sticking out of sand and rock .
luckily , there was no wind down here to toss up the sand and dirt .
i think i passed the spot where the kojas had stood in my dream .
i threw the thoughts out of my head and tried to think of something else .
like , where this flat plain of flatness ended .
where are we going , anyway ?
i asked and stared at the sky .
it was going to get dark soon .
he looked up at me through his hair .
i could see the curved end of his lip , which met he was smiling .
do we ever know , jazell ?
good point .
*** emily could n't sleep .
she kept closing her eyes but it did n't seem like a time to sleep .
she wanted to do something , just to occupy her busy mind .
she watched a strange creature fly over to her tree and hook itself on a branch near her .
it looked like a butterfly with only one set of wings , which were transparent and seemed to glow .
it had a tail and curled around the branch so it could rest its middle .
emily watched it and its beauty ; she did n't think that something this pretty could be found in a place so dark and full of death .
hello , it said .
emily propped herself up on her elbow .
hi , what are you ?
an augothas .
it replied and fluttered its wings .
are you a half-ling ?
yes , how did you know ?
is it that obvious ?
the augothas seemed to cock its head .
well you ca n't be a faery because you do n't have the ears and you ca n't be a pixie because they 're always giggling around .
how can you understand me ?
emily shrugged .
i do n't know , it 's this new power i have .
my friend has one too .
that sounds like the other one .
what do you mean ?
she asked .
the augothas uncurled its tail and took off in the air .
i must go , friend .
good luck .
it took off into the sky and emily could n't see it anymore .
she sighed and leaned back .
this was getting too complicated .
who had the augothas meant ?
*** the sky had turned gray and the sun , which was still hiding behind the clouds , seemed to drop .
i was still walking and walking and walking and walking and walking ... you get my point .
i was so sick of walking i could n't explain it in words .
maybe in a song , here i go : lalalala !
so sick of walking !
lalalala !
my legs are gon na come off !
lalalala !
i want a golf cart !
that 's how much i was sick of walking ; i was making a freaking song up in my head .
i never do stuff like that , never .
but i guess my mind was tired of seeing the same thing over and over again .
i wish it would get interesting .
oh , it was going to get really interesting .
the ground rumbled and we both stopped dead .
i looked at the earth and cracks appeared .
then dirt started to cave in .
i screeched as the ground gave way under me .
can my life get any worse ?
*** emily , jason said , i heard something .
emily 's head jerked up and then she remembered that jason was below her and she looked down .
jason was staring at the plains below the edge .
emily climbed down the tree and ran over to him .
she could see a puff of dirt that was tossed up in the distance .
emily squinted her eyes .
what is it ?
i do n't know , he said .
should we head out there ?
i think we should , she replied .
we have nowhere else to go .
chapter 11 jazell !
seth yelled , but his voice was muffled by the dirt flying everywhere .
i grabbed at something , anything , but there was no hold .
seth , where are you ?
i thought that he said something but , i could n't hear him .
all i could hear was the blood pounding in my ear and my racing heartbeat .
dirt fell into my mouth and i coughed , trying to get rid of it .
my vision was closing , getting dark .
i 'm tired ...
i closed my eyes as i fell into darkness .
*** seth opened his eyes and curled up , retching .
he took in deep , shaky breaths and laid back , staring up .
he narrowed his eyes and saw a small spot of light .
what the heck ?
he was underground , in a cave .
he groaned and sat up , his back throbbing .
his head was pounding so hard he had to close his eyes to keep from passing out .
he felt worse than he did when the stupid faery smashed his sword into his head .
he looked around the dimly lit cavern and spotted jazell , sprawled out on the floor .
he crawled over to her .
*** i couched and gagged , turning over .
dirt fell to the ground from my dry mouth .
i looked over to see seth fall back on the ground , breathing heavily .
i looked around the room and up at the sky , but i could n't really see it .
seth , where are we ?
i asked , my voice hoarse .
he sat up .
i think we 're in some underground cave .
when the ground collapsed , it must have carried us here .
that stinks , i said .
are we stuck here ?
not unless you know a way to grow wings with nothing but dirt .
i stood up and tried to rake the dirt out of my hair .
we 're stuck here .
seth sighed in frustration and brushed his blue hair .
he fluffed it up but the dirt was still stuck in globs .
i rolled my eyes at his attempts .
i turned around to see an entrance .
i walked over and bent down .
there seemed to be some kind of sign or symbol .
it was two circles with a sword through the center of both .
seth , look !
i said and pointed to it .
he came over and bent down , tracing the sign with his finger .
i waited and finally said , well , do you know what it is ?
seth dropped his finger .
it means , 'slayer of worlds ' .
does that ring a bell ?
how do you know that ?
i asked .
he shrugged .
i do n't know how , i just do .
maybe that 's my power .
well , i want to go this way , i said and pointed to the entrance .
if something like that is on the entrance , i want to know where this goes .
i agree but are n't we supposed to be trying to find emily and jason ?
i have an idea , i said and pulled my bow off my back .
i removed one of my arrows and put my bow on the ground .
i walked over to seth and pulled his sword out of its sheath .
he grabbed for it but i already had it in my hands .
i put the tip against the arrow and carved the same sign as the one on the wall .
then i tossed seth 's sword back at him , which he caught without a problem , and picked up my bow .
i notched the carved arrow and released it .
it whizzed up and out of sight .
there , now they 'll know how to find us .
seth whistled .
that 's a good idea .
he gripped his sword and walked through the tunnel .
follow me .
i followed his steps as we .
when you tell someone to follow you , it usually means that you know where you 're going .
not this time , he said over his shoulder .
the tunnel ended and opened up to the sky .
for a second i thought we were back on the plain , but we were n't .
the sky was blood red and a crescent moon was rising up .
from the feeling of the air i knew we were n't underground anymore but i did n't know where we were .
skeleton trees were scattered to the sides .
there were long hills ahead , the grass a light gray .
this place looks like its from a book about hell , seth said .
where are we now ?
i asked .
he shook his head .
do we ever know where we are ?
i shook my head and he sighed .
exactly , we never do .
you really got to stop asking that question .
he started to hike the hill .
were trying to find out .
i walked up behind him , my leg muscles cramping .
when we got to the top , i fell on my knees and breathed heavily .
seth looked over his shoulder , his eyes twinkling in amusement .
am i too fast for you , jazell ?
no way , i huffed .
i just need to catch my breath .
i stood up and looked around .
the hill was pretty high and i could see better .
the land was hill after hill , tree after tree .
it didnt seem to end .
hey , im king of the hill , seth joked and reached for the sky .
i walked over and pushed him gently .
he fell backward on his butt and i laughed .
more like goof of the hill .
he stuck his tongue out .
youre just jealous .
of what ?
i asked .
what do you have that would make me jealous .
uh he stumbled .
i dont know , thats what you usually say in this type of situation .
i laughed .
then what happens ?
i dont know .
seth whipped out his leg and tripped me .
i landed with an oof , and got dead grass all over me .
he chuckled as i gave him a deadly glare .
oh !
he said .
youre jealous because im not covered in grass .
not yet , i said , my voice dripping with sarcasm .
i lunged at him and he rolled to the side .
i kicked dirt at his face and he spit it out .
i kicked at his legs but he moved , and i kicked his arm instead .
the whole time we were laughing like two crazy six year olds .
who knew that you could have fun in a place like this ?
life is full of happy surprises .
*** emily was seriously freaking out .
jason and her had run the whole length of the plain and found a giant hole in the ground on the way .
yes , a giant hole .
it sounded crazy to emily but her eyes didnt lie .
and what made it worse was jason found one of jazells arrows sticking out of the ground .
but there was no jazell .
an arrow without its shooter was never a good sign .
emily twirled the arrow in her fingers while jason paced back and forth .
emily had offered to be the one who paced but jason had waved away her offer and started pacing .
so all emily could do was sit there and twirl the arrow in fear because right now it wasnt looking good for jazell and seth .
what i dont get , jason said , is how the arrow managed to stay in perfect shape when the ground collapsed .
the arrow should be broken and not sticking out of the ground a few feet away .
maybe she shot it after , emily suggested , because that meant that she was alive .
jason rubbed his eyes .
i guess thats a possibility .
jazell and seth were always too stubborn to die anyway .
he stopped pacing .
but why would she shoot it up here ?
maybe she wanted to show us that she was alive , emily said .
a sign , jason muttered and snapped his fingers .
thats it !
jazell likes to leave clues , check the arrow .
emily turned the arrow and saw a sloppy line drawn through two squiggly circles .
she squinted closer and saw that jazell had tried to make the line some sort of sword but epically failed .
emily showed jason and he nodded .
thats what i thought .
now we have to figure out what it means .
emily walked up to the edge of the hole and looked down .
i have a feeling that we have to go down there .
jason sighed .
i guess were jumping down .
why would we do that ?
because , he said and sat on the side , we dont have a rope .
then he jumped .
*** life is good when you dont have to worry about anything and everything is calm and peaceful .
well thats not my life .
my life isnt peaceful by any standards .
it involves lots of smart remarks and bad decisions involving life or death .
it also involves a bad choice of a place where you roll around pretending like your life could be normal for a second .
yeah seth sat up quickly and looked around .
he must have heard it too .
the ground rumbled in the distance and i didnt know if it was an earthquake or a stampede of elephants .
whats going on ?
i asked .
seth crawled back to the edge and i joined him .
we peered over and i spotted a bunch of monsters stomping their way across the hills .
seriously , do these guys know how to walk ?
great , seth hissed under his breath .
company for us .
whoo i mumbled .
he rolled his eyes and shifted his gaze back to the monsters .
where are they going ?
uh , we follow them , i said .
i think .
yup , we just follow a bunch of monsters that would like to smash us to pulp and serve us for dinner , seth said and started to slide down the side of the hill .
brilliant idea .
i followed him down , feeling the grass and dirt scrape the bottom of my leg .
my pants started to scrunch up causing this slide to be very annoying .
i decided to ignore it because i had my bow in my hands and had more important things to worry about .
we crouched behind a rock and watched the group walk off .
seth started to stand up and signaled me to wait for him .
he jumped over and ran out into the open .
he leaned forward and narrowed his eyes , probably trying to see the disappearing bunch .
he held his hand out , signaling me to wait .
then he beckoned me and i stood up .
then someone tapped me on the shoulder .
i bit back a scream and whipped out my knife .
but i dropped it in surprise as i spotted emily standing over me , rocking back and forth on her heels .
i squealed and hugged her tight .
jason was limping over with a grim expression on his face .
what i dont get a hug too ?
he asked .
i jumped down a deep hole for you .
uh i said , feeling awkward .
seth walked over and patted jason on his back .
tell you what , when we defeat kojas , ill give you a hug .
uh , fine dude , jason said and whispered in seths ear .
seths eyes widened and he smacked jason on the head .
dude , youre crazy , he said as jason rubbed and smoothed his hair back down .
i shook my head and said , anyway , emily how come you two didnt destroy each other ?
hey youre right , she replied and her brow furrowed .
i really dont know .
jazell , we better move or well lose them , seth reminded me and started to walk up the hill .
emily raised an eyebrow .
loose who ?
well explain later !
i said and ran after seth .
right now we have to move !
we dashed up the hill in the direction the monsters were going .
when we reached the top , seth stopped and stared down .
emily and jason looked confused but joined us .
we looked down at the ground and i gasped as i saw all the monsters gather around in a semi-circle , waiting .
what are they waiting for ?
emily asked in a hushed voice .
seth squinted down .
i dont want to know .
do you think it could ?
i asked .
lets hope not , seth interrupted me .
oh course ; being ourselves , we dont have any luck at all .
the sky darkened even more , not that i thought that was possible .
the mist swirled and a cold chill that ran shivers down my spine ascended on us .
and out of the mist stepped a dark figure .
kojas .
again .
this time for real .
not in a dream/vision .
my heart stopped and my blood froze .
kojas red eyes gleamed in the darkness and his cloak snapped at the wind .
he looked up and his red eyes stared at me .
me of all people in this horrible world .
he smiled in triumph .
seth stared stone faced at kojas as he slowly walked towards us .
with every step , seths hand inched closer to his sword .
emily cracked her knuckles quietly and held them stiff at her sides .
her face was determined , but i saw her eyes flicker .
jason flicked out his knives and held them so tightly that his knuckles were white .
if he gripped any harder , i was afraid he would snap his fingers off .
and , me ?
i pulled an arrow out faster than you could say oh-my-god-theres-a-hideous-monster-coming-to-whip-our-butts .
and then i launched it .
the arrow shot at kojas , speeding through the air .
but what did kojas do ?
he whipped out his sword and slashed the arrow in half right before it hit him .
the pieces fell on the ground .
holy tamale .
i stared at the cracked pieces of my arrow and my flare of determination went out with a poof .
great , now what do i do ?
that was a fail , i scolded myself .
a fail !
nice try , seth whispered and i think he really meant it .
or maybe he was teasing me .
its hard to tell in these situations .
seth brandished his sword .
my turn .
really , warrior ?
kojas said and laughed .
his laugh was like a bunch of spiders running down my back .
you think your sword will do any more than the pathetic archer girls arrow ?
hey , i shouted , im not a pathetic archer girl !
oh course , the two ignored me .
i swear the air sizzled with the tension between kojas and seth .
seth stood ridged and i was pretty sure that it was taking all of his will power not to jump at kojas , sword flying .
i believe it will , seth said through gritted teeth .
kojas laughed again but i dont think any of us saw what was so funny .
emily leaned towards me .
i think you were right , when you said that i wouldnt want to meet kojas .
uh-huh , i said but didnt really pay attention .
i would like to see you try with that sword of yours , kojas said and smiled wickedly at seth .
i knew he was baiting him .
seth narrowed his eyes .
you cant trick me into fighting you , kojas .
yeah , were not stupid , i said and stepped next to seth with my hands on my hips .
i mean , if youre so smart , than why is your name so stupid .
i giggled .
kojas sounds like toe jazz , whatever that is .
i heard emily laugh and jason say , burn !
kojas eyes flamed but he formed a tight smile .
let me inform you , jazell , that you are outnumbered five to one ?
man , this guy is good .
um , well weare cooler than you , i stumbled .
really jazell ?
emily hissed from behind me .
i turned my head to her .
well , you come up with something to top that and well see how well you do .
nah , im good , she said quickly .
kojas laughed again .
seriously , was this faery guy crazy or something ?
you are mistaken , he said .
i am cooler than you because i hold all the cards .
then he turned to the army and yelled , attack !
chapter 12 the monsters surged up the hill , blocking out kojas delirious laughter .
seth shouted , stay together , dont get separated !
a troll charged at me and i jumped to the side .
i looked up and saw that emily , jason , and seth had been swallowed by the rushing creatures .
so much for that plan .
emily !
i yelled but my voice was drowned out .
i saw a flash of fire off to the side .
emily was fine .
i twisted around so that the troll charged past me .
i turned and plunged my knife into its back before it could respond and it fell to the ground .
i felt pain flare in my right foot and looked down to see a frost beast with its teeth in my leg .
when i tried to pull away , in bit down harder .
ow , i yelped .
ow , ow , ow , get the heck off me !
i slashed downward and the frost beast let go of my leg .
it zipped between my legs and launched itself at my left leg .
i stepped to the side and slammed my foot on the beasts back .
it yipped and went still .
i raced through the crowds , jumping and ducking .
i looked over my shoulder and up the hill , wishing i could escape all the bodies that were pressed together in combat .
then i rammed into one .
what the heck ?
i fell on my butt and blinked as jason picked himself off the ground .
sorry , i said and stood up .
watch where youre going jazell , look out !
jason suddenly yelled .
i dove onto the ground and felt the monster brush past me .
i looked up to see jason rolling on the ground before jumping on the faery jerks back .
he yelled at jason right before i saw the knife disappear somewhere in his neck .
the faerys yells turned to screams and then nothing .
he fell to the ground and jason brushed himself off .
you okay , jazell ?
he asked me and held out a hand .
i took his hand and he pulled me up .
yup , im just peachy .
at least you can use sarcasm in a time like this , he said and started to fight his way through the crowd .
i followed him quickly .
i had no desire to become separated again .
when cant you use sarcasm ?
i asked loudly .
he didnt reply to me because he had spotted emily .
she was slowly backing up with her palms out .
fire danced from her fingertips and twisted towards the troll and frost beast .
the beast breathed and ice sprayed from its mouth .
emily moved her hand over and the ice evaporated into mist .
she was holding up fine but i didnt know how much longer .
i strung my bow and released an arrow .
it pierced the frost beasts pelt and it fell to the ground .
emily turned to me with huge , confused eyes .
she mouthed the words , thank you .
i nodded in response .
jason threw his knife at the troll and it landed in its leg .
the troll collapsed on the ground and emily raised her hands in the air .
the ground rumbled and the troll disappeared in the dirt .
i ran over to her and hugged her .
thank goodness we found you .
i looked at her pale face and frowned .
are you okay ?
she nodded vigorously .
yes , its just hard work to use my magic .
i need a lot of concentration .
we all ducked behind a half-dead tree to escape from the swarms of monsters .
we were breathing heavily .
i leaned my head against the trees cold bark , wanting to disappear from it all .
wheres seth ?
emily asked .
i raised my head .
we havent found him yet .
her eyes widened .
what do you mean , you havent found him yet ?
i crashed into jazell , who was doing , like , forty , jason pointed to me .
then we both found you fighting beasts with your fiery fingertips of death .
she raised an eyebrow .
fiery fingertips of death ?
hey , he shrugged , jazells sarcasm is contagious .
anyway , we better find seth before he gets into some serious trouble , i said , and walked off .
i went farther down the hill and the fighting spread out more .
i tripped on a dead root and cursed as i stood back up .
the slope started to even out more and the trees popped up again .
be careful .
i stopped .
the voice had come out of nowhere .
the time is near .
the voice whispered as faintly as the breeze .
what , i thought , was that ?
you must stop it .
i gritted my teeth in annoyance .
im sick and tired of your riddles , whoever you are .
just give me a straight answer or i cant do anything .
it all comes down to this .
what is coming ?
i cried out in frustration .
it didnt reply to me again , so i continued to walk down the hill .
what did i have to stop ?
what was so important ?
why wasnt i allowed a straight answer in this stupid world ?
i heard a faint clang ahead .
i walked faster and with ever step the noise got louder .
when the ground became completely flat , i stopped at the scene in front of me .
seth spun around , bringing his sword up to block kojas swords .
kojas pulled his swords back and slashed through the air .
seth ducked and stabbed at his opponents middle .
kojas brought his sword down and swiped seths .
it twisted out of seths grip and fell to the ground .
i wanted to scream , but i couldnt .
i was frozen in fear .
seth dashed to his sword , hand out stretched .
then kojas raised a hand and something dark shot out of it .
it slammed into seths side and he fell to the ground .
no !
i wanted to scream .
no , seth !
i saw seth squirm as kojas walked towards him .
i heard him chuckle .
seth , kojas said .
seth , oh when will you learn ?
seth groaned and grabbed at his sword , but kojas kicked it away .
then he slashed his sword across seths face .
i saw the thin blue line well up on his cheek .
kojas laughed .
you cant beat me ; you can never be safe .
seth pushed himself up and dove for his sword , which was off to the side .
kojas flicked his sword down and i saw seth flinch .
he looked at his arm in amazement where a deep cut had sliced through his clothes .
he pressed his fingers on his arm to stop the blood and continued to scoot towards the sword .
kojas stepped to the side and blocked his path .
seth gazed up at him and i saw his eyes blaze in hate .
what do you want ?
he snarled .
seth , i think you know what i want .
never !
the faery chuckled and i saw his greasy hair bounce up and down .
you seriously think that i assumed you would walk away with me ?
oh , i had no intention of it being this simple .
i knew what he meant , and i yanked my bow off .
i pulled my arrow out and notched it , aiming it at kojas back .
jazell , wait !
i didnt turn around as emily and jason skidded to a halt behind me .
i didnt drop my bow either .
wait jazell , she panted .
i tightened my grip .
why ?
hes going to try to take seth .
we have to stop him .
then i released my arrow .
its an understatement to say all hell broke loose .
in my opinion , it was way crazier than that .
kojas sidestepped my arrow and it disappeared somewhere in the trees .
emily raised her hands and roots twisted upward , trying to encase kojas but he kept slashing them away .
jason attempted to distract him by running around throwing knives at him but i think jason was too busy ducking the black stuff that shot out of kojas hands .
i ran right past all of them and towards seth .
i knelt down and smacked him across his good cheek .
ow , what was that for ?
he grunted .
i dont have enough bruises for your liking ?
thats for being a jerk and not telling us you were going to fight kojas on your own , i said angrily .
hey in my defense , he found me first .
i opened my mouth to say something smart , but i hear emily scream .
i turned around to see jason crash into a tree and not move .
seth jumped up and grabbed his sword from the ground .
he ran for kojas .
kojas turned around and looked like a kid on christmas morning .
he raised his sword to block seths blow .
seth pulled back and parried kojas swing .
emily , is he okay ?
i yelled .
she looked up and nodded to me .
i turned back around to see kojas slash seth across the stomach .
thats when i screamed .
seth fell to his knees , holding his midsection .
his sword fell out of his grip and to the ground .
kojas grinned in triumph and kicked seth to the ground .
i screamed again , when he didnt move .
at last , kojas breathed .
monster !
i cried .
youre a monster !
he didnt answer me .
i looked up the hill to see a bunch of faery jerks running down the hill towards us .
emily stood in front of jason and raised her hands .
i notched an arrow and aimed .
dust kicked up everywhere as i aimed blindly .
i heard one of them shout out in pain .
i shot another and another , anger burning through me .
stop him .
i turned around and saw seths body through the dust .
he looked up at me and mouthed , jazell .
seth !
i yelled .
then the dust and darkness swallowed him up until i couldnt see him at all .
epilogue i padded silently through the long , dark halls .
emily and jason walked wordlessly by my side .
no one spoke because there was nothing to say , and so much to say , at the same time .
it had been almost a day since seth disappeared .
a day since kojas took him .
i had told him , when he had first said that kojas wanted to use him that he didnt have to worry .
i should have known that kojas would do anything to get him , and now seth was gone .
after he had been taken and jason had awakened , the faery jerks had scattered .
then a light pixie had showed up , the same one who had saved my life a while ago , and led us all the way to her majestys place .
she was apparently the queen but she was nothing like a stuck up royal leader .
she was more like a warrior who lead igneeria in the good times .
she was really nice but when we had met her , i was in an awful mood .
no one blamed me ; i had just watched one of my best friends get beat up and taken right before my eyes .
her majesty said to return in the morning when i would hopefully be in a better mood .
so jason , emily and i walked to her throne room .
emily pushed open the door and queen crystalla turned to us .
she wasnt someone who youd expect to be named crystalla .
she was more of the tough type .
jazell , emily and jason !
crystalla beamed .
im so happy you can finally join us !
crystalla was dressed in a hunting jacket with a dark blue top underneath .
she had dark green pants with simple brown boots .
a gleaming sword was slung on her back .
my heart ached because she somewhat resembled seth .
man , i missed his stubbornness .
yup were happy too , emily said with a sigh .
so , um , what did you need ?
i asked .
she nodded .
right , you must meet your destiny .
its a shame the other one couldnt be here right now .
she looked upset but she wiped it away with a small smile .
follow me , please .
we followed without any words .
we went outside and past some light pixies that were milling around the very small garden .
one waved to me and i raised my hand in greeting .
crystalla walked into a small , dark building and i followed .
it opened into a room with a high , glass ceiling .
ahead of us were four doors , each with a symbol i couldnt see from here .
crystalla stopped and faced us .
find the door with your symbol on it .
uh , jason raised his hand sheepishly , how do we know which symbol is ours ?
she smiled .
you will know .
she motioned for us to move up to the doors .
i walked slowly and leaned forward to see the symbol .
amazingly , i walked right up to the one with an arrow on it .
i looked to the left and saw a door with a sword on it .
i sighed and pushed open my door .
the small room also had glass ceilings but they were dimmer .
the room was dark and cold , with dust in the air .
i was wondering when you would get here , a familiar voice said .
i jumped and looked into one of the corners .
the girl from my dreams walked out , shimmering .
she smiled and i then noticed the bow hanging on her back with a quiver of arrows .
you know how you asked for my name before ?
i can tell you now , she said .
actually , i can tell you a lot .
great , im all ears .
she laughed .
my name is june and like you , i was once a full human .
youre a half-ling ?
i asked in amazement .
i was a half-ling.
, june corrected me .
im dead now .
but i can still speak to you because you have to complete the job i did before with my friends .
wow , back up a second , i said quickly .
youre dead ?
she tapped her foot impatiently .
do you know how long ago i defeated kojas ?
it must have been over one hundred years ago .
wow , that was a long time ago , i said .
you defeated kojas ?
june sighed in frustration .
did you pay any attention to anything ?
mackenzie , david , mark and i beat kojas the first time he appeared .
it wasnt easy ; let me tell you that right now .
how did you die ?
mark died of a wound after we beat kojas .
he was too weak to live .
david and i died in an ambush of what was left of kojas army .
mackenzie died from a fatal fall , i dont remember how .
oh , i said and rubbed my neck .
i dont want to be rude , but do you need to tell me anything else ?
i have to try to come up with a few explanations for back home .
a lot of explanations .
june walked towards me until she was standing right in front .
i could almost see through her body , which was really starting to freak me out .
you have to get back seth , she whispered .
i know david was supposed to see him right now and i know hes disappointed .
you cant beat kojas without the four of you .
you cant unleash the nights circle without all of you .
and without the nights circle , you can not destroy kojas forever .
i started to shake with the intensity of it all .
if the nights circle destroys kojas forever , why is he still here ?
june backed up a bit .
we think that our nights circle wasnt strong enough because mark was seriously injured .
but no problem , you guys have to destroy him now .
she must have seen me shaking because she added , no pressure .
no pressure ?
i practically squeaked .
you just put the fate of both worlds on my shoulders .
no , she said , i put the fate of both worlds on all four of your shoulders .
alright , is that all ?
i asked , eager to leave .
june nodded and i turned to open the door .
i was just about to turn the handle when she said , jazell , dont be scared to bring out your emotions .
they make you stronger .
i looked over my shoulder to see june standing stiffly .
thanks , i whispered .
thanks june .
good luck , jazell .
i opened the door and saw that emily and jason were also coming out of their rooms .
emily looked a little shaken but she gave me a thumbs-up .
good luck , junes voice whispered one more time .
yeah , i was going to need it .
big time .
seth , im coming , i thought , and i meant it .
hold on .
then i walked out to face my destiny .
dont miss book two in the fall of igneeria series !
fall of igneeria : the nights circle prism story of ci prism ( story of ci ) copyright 2010 rachel moschell published by rachel moschell at smashwords third edition the prism table of contents 0 gilded 1 purple 2 gaudy gold 3 electric blue 4 mocha 5 aquamarine 6 emerald 7 white plaster 8 scarlet 9 silver 10 midnight blue 11 coffee 12 hazel 13 olive green 14 beet red 15 pale 16 canary yellow 17 brick red 18 dark 19 transparent 20 red white and blue 21 cinnamon 22 sickly pink 23 bittersweet 24 sea green 25 crimson 26 pale blue 27 sapphire 28 fiery 29 turquoise 30 blond 31 plaid 32 white 33 grape 34 lilac preview of reverb ( story of ci 2 ) 0 gilded the silvery branches of the molle tree whispered in the shade , sprinkling soft leaves in the dirt of the boy 's path .
the sky shone sapphire behind the lacy branches , and the only other life along this back road were two tawny cows grazing in the silver white grass of the ditch .
behind them ran the same crumbling adobe wall the boy saw every day as he walked this way out of town for the afternoon session at the christian school his parents sent him to .
today was tuesday , and that meant bible class .
in one coffee-colored hand , the boy clutched his fat black bible with gilded letters , a present from his parents on his last birthday , fourteen .
he shuffled slowly along the road , feeling the bible burn into his fingertips , trying not to free the furious tears scalding the back of his eyes .
he should leave the bible here in the ditch by the cows .
because now the boy knew : none of it really mattered .
oh , he was quite sure there was justice and virtue in the world , and he intended to find it .
but it was not here .
not in this book , and not in anything that his parents had ever taught him about it .
he had finally told them what had happened and they did n't care .
they had n't moved a finger to help .
the boy 's hazel eyes narrowed and his lower lip quivered like a baby 's .
what in the world was he supposed to do now ?
and then he saw the blackened fingers rising from the silky grass in the ditch .
the boy 's mouth opened in slow motion and his whole world congealed to frozen ; then he lurched forward towards the horrible sight , heard his heavy bible thump to the dirt .
the fingers were a child 's , even darker than his own , blackened by dirt .
the boy fell to his knees on the sharp stones of the road and flung the grass aside , shaking so badly he could hardly breathe .
another boy was sprawled face-up in the ditch , face bloodied and swollen , unmistakably dead .
the fingers had n't belonged to a small child , but to someone the boy 's own age , dressed in torn navy sweat pants and lying here dead in the ditch on the road to the christian school .
oceans of bile rose up in the boy 's throat and he collapsed into the white grass , emptying his stomach into the weeds until he felt himself heave , insides scraped dry .
it was him , the boy 's best friend .
the one no one cared about .
the boy forced himself to stand up , tears dripping off his chin and onto the embroidered gold cross of his white school uniform .
his friend was dead , and he had n't been able to stop this .
wiping his chin on one sleeve , the boy began to march back towards town , stepping over the muddy , crumpled bible .
he would take his stuff from his parents ' house and leave .
if he never saw them again , that would be just fine .
the bible would be staying here .
1 purple bolivia 2017 when pastor martir mentioned that the quechua bible conference was a ways out in the bolivian countryside , he certainly had n't been kidding .
by her calculations , eight hours had gone by since they left the vibrant garden city of cochabamba , climbing higher and higher into the clouds .
wara cadogan slit her eyes open and squinted around the darkened interior of the jeep .
the windowpanes had frosted now that the sun hid behind the jagged peaks of the andes .
an elbow jabbed her side and wara heard her friend nazaret martir yawn , a squeaky , muffled sound that caused her father , pastor martir , to glance at both girls in the rearview mirror .
`` we 'll be there any second , '' he told them , much too chipper after being cooped up in the jeep all day .
`` i know it 's freezing now , but soon we 'll get you warmed up .
it 's a long hike . ''
wara stuffed her numb hands into the sleeves of her alpaca sweater and bit her lip .
why had she let herself be talked into this ?
she loved the martirs , and their large family had basically adopted wara during the six years she 'd been a missionary here in bolivia .
as a linguistics major , wara usually jumped at any chance to travel out into the countryside and practice speaking quechua .
so when pastor martir said he needed her to translate from spanish to quechua at this conference in potosi , wara had enthusiastically answered , `` why not ? ''
bad idea .
a very bad idea .
a bible conference , wara ?
what were you thinking ?
pastor martir steered the jeep into a cavernous rut , and wara felt her jaw snap at the impact .
the turquoise knit cap she wore slid over one eye .
she pushed the hat back into position as a low moan came from the back seat .
if she were n't so stressed , wara would have grinned .
her best guy friend noah was waking up from his perch back with the luggage .
`` where are we ? ''
she heard him mutter under his breath .
`` this place looks like the twilight zone . ''
one long arm brushed wara 's ear as he reached up to clear frost from her window .
not a single light outside , and the murky sky tossed off thick shadows .
the skeletal remains of a tree rose up out of the gravel path , beckoning the jeep forward .
noah was right : it looked downright freaky out there .
pushing back her nervousness about the whole bible conference thing , wara turned towards the back seat .
despite the rough ride , noah was looking content , emerald green eyes glinting in the moonlight .
his sandy , shoulder-length hair was littered with straw and the poor guy really had to hunch over to fit his frame in the tight space on top of the luggage .
at first glance , noah hearst might give off the aura of surfer dude , but he was n't really full of muscle .
and he was n't fat .
noah was just a big guy .
plus , there were n't really a lot of surfers in ohio , where noah was from .
`` did you have a nice nap back there with the potatoes ? ''
she asked .
noah tried to stretch , then grimaced and gave up .
`` yeah .
i guess . ''
he glanced around the car , took in pastor martir and two skinny quechua-speaking bible school students in the front , wara and nazaret in the middle seat .
`` i guess i 'll be the one carrying this stuff up to the conference for our lunch .
seriously , that 's about all i 'll be good for .
nazaret 's dad must be thrilled he got you to translate , though .
word on the street is you speak quechua like a native . ''
true .
despite the cold , wara felt her armpits prick .
she used to be good at this .
the first year wara lived in bolivia , she worked teaching bible lessons to ladies in quechua and helped at a ton of children 's bible clubs around the city .
but then everything happened .
she left the country for four months to try to get things together , and when she came back she was teaching literacy classes to quechua women .
and volunteering at the home for children with aids that the martir family ran .
she did n't teach about the bible anymore , because that would just make her a hypocrite .
and noah , good friend that he was , never asked .
`` i can never get over how lucky you are , '' noah was going on .
`` sounding so bolivian , and looking it too .
can you imagine anyone ever mixing me up with a bolivian ? ''
`` uh , no . ''
wara raised an eyebrow and him and stifled a smile .
`` i would be seriously worried about anybody who thought you were bolivian . ''
in addition to being tall and blond with skin that crisped red in the strong cochabamba sun , noah had studied spanish in spain .
whenever the guy spoke spanish , it came out with a lisp that , to bolivians , sounded really silly .
noah had good reason to be jealous of wara .
besides teaching her quechua from the time she was a baby , wara 's quechua grandmother from peru had passed along some of her color .
wara 's skin was a light tan that bronzed in the sun .
behind trendy maroon glasses , her eyes were honey brown .
and her brown hair , now sporting an uneven cut with burgundy highlights , let her fit right in with her bolivian friends .
`` i think i 'm getting a cold , '' nazaret announced smally from wara 's side .