seths face reached a new undiscovered level of red , i didnt want to lose a friend .
right emily trailed off and smirked at him , wiggling her eyebrows .
seth squirmed slightly and avoided her gaze .
i started to laugh but in morphed into a cough instead .
i clutched my midsection to find it was covered in bandages .
what exactly happened ?
i questioned .
seth glanced at emily and back at me , i dont really know .
we turned around to see you being mauled by a thrasher .
before either of us could do anything , some light appeared out of nowhere .
when it died down , we found you lying on the ground unconscious .
thats basically it .
we dont know what the light was .
emily added .
but whatever it was , it saved your life .
uh i have a feeling i should thank it , but i dont know how you thank light .
i muttered .
you thank it like you would thank anyone else , a voice said .
i almost jumped to the moon in surprise .
out of nowhere someone , or something , appeared beside jason .
i think jason was more scared because he actually jumped into the air .
as it came into view , it became obvious that it was a girl .
she in a yellow cloak and had dazzling red hair .
she smiled warmly at us with her chocolate brown eyes and i realized she had pointed ears .
so i basically made the conclusion that she wasnt human .
uh okay i said slowly .
she giggled , wow i never thought id scare a bunch of half-lings but i guess i did .
you didnt scare me , jason said quickly .
yeah okay , jason , emily said sarcastically .
i sat up and leaned on seth because i would fall if i didnt , and emily and jason were too busy giving each other looks to help me .
what and who are you ?
i stared at her .
she rolled her eyes , a light pixie , duh .
i blinked , a light pixie ?
yes , a light pixie .
are you deaf ?
she retorted .
uh , no , im not .
i dont know what a light pixie is or why you saved my life , but thank you i said , trying not to snap back .
well you are a half-ling and we need as many of them as we can get , she pointed out .
plus im not evil , so why shouldnt i help you out ?
uh thanks i guess .
this situation was extremely awkward to me .
she winked and disappeared in a flash .
i limped over to my body ignoring seths yells to tell me to sit down .
i felt the wind pick up and was whisked back to my normal self .
i felt fine except for the fact it hurt to stretch my left side .
i would probably be extremely stiff and sore tomorrow morning , but i was used to that feeling .
we began to walk back towards the park when jason stopped us .
hey can seth and i catch you guys later ?
we have something to do .
jason grabbed seth and they took off .
emily raised an eyebrow , should we be concerned ?
nah theyre boys , let them do what they have to do , i said with a quick sigh .
while we were walking the boys appeared in front of us , holding something behind their backs .
they seemed to be fighting giggles which usually meant they were hiding something .
or they were about to do something that fell under their category of funny .
hi guys , seth said still fighting a smirk .
hi , i replied cautiously .
what are you guys hiding ?
jasons face twisted up and a snort of laughter fought its way out of his nose .
nothing .
right emily gave me a look that said , is this good or bad ?
i didnt really have an answer for her but i knew that whatever was coming , it wasnt going to be good .
so jason , we have a question for you .
i nodded towards emily .
jasons face grinned in a seriously weird way that screamed , weirdo !
he shifted his hands and said , what ?
emily stepped forward , we want to know what youre but she never finished .
she had triggered it all .
jason had been hiding two blue , full , water pistols behind his back and was now shooting them at emilys face .
she was holding up her hands and letting out some sort of squeal .
seth had been hiding a full two-handed water gun behind his back and the end was pointed at no other than me .
you wouldnt , i said , my voice dark .
seth gave me a maniacs grin , you already know the answer to that .
then he shot me right in the face .
i blocked most of the spray from my face but water still leaked through my fingers .
i felt the cold water seep through my clothes and onto my skin as seth continued to soak me .
crap jason , shut it off !
emily hollered but it didnt work because i heard her yell again as he sprayed her hair .
i couldnt see anything because my eyes were half shut and i was afraid seth would wash my eyes out .
seth seriously , stop .
you cant command boys to do anything and to prove that , seth shot my butt .
eventually they stopped , only because three water guns can hold only so much water and emily and me looked like we could kill .
we were both completely soaked to the bone and even though in was the middle of summer , we were shivering .
the boys looked completely satisfied with how we looked .
after emily and i gave them a look , they tore down the street and disappeared .
emily squeezed the bottom of her shirt , i hate them so much right now .
water gushed onto the street .
i wrung my hair out .
i agree and if we didnt need them , id be planning their funeral .
emily smiled , id be helping you .
do you think they would like pink coffins ?
totally , i laughed and grabbed my dry bag .
lets go home .
want to crash at my place ?
emily flipped open her phone , her fingers danced on the keys and paused .
then they clicked and she shoved it in her pocket .
yup i can .
youre always one step ahead .
always .
so what do you think we should do ?
emily asked from my bed later on .
i swallowed the bit of strawberry that had been in my mouth .
i dont know , ambush them back ?
they might see that coming , she pointed out , and its really obvious .
well , they think we wont do that because that is exactly what they would be expecting , so by actually doing it , we can trick them , i rambled on and grabbed another strawberry .
emily tapped her lip with her pencil and straightened her pink pajamas .
i have no clue what you just said jazell .
i laughed , what i meant was that we should ambush them .
give them a piece of what they did to us .
emilys eyes lit up , you mean use water guns and water balloons i added .
and a trebuchet to launch the balloons !
emily scribbled furiously on her paper .
i can build one easily .
sweet , but when do we do it ?
all four of us hang out every day .
i can solve that problem .
we just tell them we want a day to do girl things and theyll butt right out , she slid onto the floor and snatched a strawberry .
i grinned , this is going to be some fun revenge !
you can say that again .
okay , i said , this is going to be some fun revenge .
she wacked me in the head with my pillow , youre so weird .
well thats the way i am , deal with it , i wacked her back with my own pillow .
no i will not deal with it , she walloped me in the head one more time .
i need you for team penguin , and i dont need a smarty pants .
how come you get to name the team ?
i asked .
because i was the one who got shot first .
early the next day , which wasnt that early because we got up around ten oclock , we gathered my old water gun and some water balloons .
emily brought down the trebuchet shed spent all night building and we took off on our bikes .
emily led the way to jasons where she was pretty sure the boys would be .
we hid our bikes in the trees and snuck up to their backyard .
jason and seth appeared to be setting up some airplane that they built from scratch .
they were muttering to each other and assembling a table they would use for a launch pad .
i grabbed my water gun and emily took out her trebuchet , with her balloons , and we snuck up on them .
i held my hand up to stop emily , waiting until jason and seth were grabbing the airplane out of a box and lowered my hand .
revenge !
i yelled , and ran out from behind the trees , with emily following .
the looks on their faces were priceless .
they spun around just in time as emily launched a balloon right at jasons face .
i aimed at seth , who i soaked in minutes .
their faces looked like they had seen a dinosaur come back to life .
jason scrambled away from emily but she nailed him so many times it didnt matter , he was already soaking wet .
the last of my water leaked out the back of the gun and we just stood there .
jason smiled but you could see he was hiding the anger in his face .
seth was emotionless ; he didnt give any sign on what he was feeling .
so you felt like getting us back ?
jason asked .
emily glared at him , you deserved it because you soaked us too .
so , he rolled his eyes , you thought you could just ambush us .
have you learned nothing and that we might want revenge now .
then you will and so on .
youve started a really long war .
who says the penguins cant win a war , huh ?
we just won right now , emily said .
the penguins ?
does that really matter ?
she hissed .
youre on .
jason smirked , alright then , penguins , if you want a water war , you got one .
youre on too !
this whole time seth didnt say a word , which was strange .
usually seth did all the talking while jason stood watching but now jason was doing all the talking and seth was the one watching .
he stood there and seemed unmoved from being soaked by my water gun .
his face was blank and he was staring at nothing .
it wasnt the seth i was friends with .
while emily and jason were bickering i said , seth ?
seth didnt answer .
he acted like he didnt hear me .
seth ?
hello earth to seth , i repeated .
no answer again .
seth is there something wrong ?
i whispered .
he didnt answer me again .
he continued to stare at the woods as if he expected a flying deer to leap out , wearing pink socks .
what the heck seth , are you deaf now ?
i waited for a sign that he heard me to appear on his face , but it remained blank .
emily huffed loudly , expect something from jazell and me soon jason .
were out of here .
see you around .
she grabbed my hand and pulled me away .
seth turned to see me leave and the look gave me a dark feeling inside .
his face was masked with one emotion , one that made me vow to myself that i would find out what he was hiding , what he was keeping a secret .
that emotion was not seth , not the one i knew .
it made me feel the same way and i didnt know why .
fear .
chapter 5 the water war continued with us getting them and them getting us .
we attacked them with a pool , and they threw water balloons at us while we were on bikes .
it was pretty simple , but the whole time all i noticed was seth .
he wasnt the same to me anymore ; he always had this mask on his face , hiding himself from the rest of us .
i had to find out what was wrong , and soon .
jazell , are you paying attention ?
emilys annoyed voice broke my day dreams .
i snapped back to attention , uh yes , i am emily .
just for the record , what are we talking about ?
jazell youre hopeless !
were talking about what to do next , she scowled .
wait , an idea jumped into my head , how about we meet under a truce .
emily stared at me .
a truce ?
seriously ?
that is the complete opposite of what were doing .
i know but trust me ; we need to meet under a truce .
what about monster fighting and this whole puzzle with the dwarfs ?
did we just forget all about it or are we not going to do our job anymore ?
were still fighting , jazell .
were all just having some fun because its summer and not school .
well get back to it later .
listen , why dont we meet once and then go back to this water war .
at least we should think about this a little bit .
i pushed the paper of warnings in front of her face .
fine , she snatched the paper out of my hands .
well meet jazell , okay ?
are you happy now ?
then well go back to soaking each other randomly .
yes , im happy .
i didnt call a truce for the warnings .
i did it because thats when id talk to seth and get his secret out of him .
then maybe i could help him and stop having to watch his miserable face .
emily made a face and left the room to dial jasons number and tell him about the meeting .
i waited patiently for her to come back in my room .
i cant wait long because i have a tendency to go crazy , so i walked up to my window sill and looked at the sky .
i stared it and turned around to see emily come back in .
but not before my eyes caught a flash of blue .
emily and i parked our bikes and headed into the woods and towards the clearing .
we stepped into it , and i took in the familiar feeling .
out of all the places weve all been , this place felt the safest , as if it were surrounded by a good force , not bad for once .
we often met here when we werent all together .
i sat down next to emily on a log .
minutes later jason and seth emerged from the trees .
they werent smiling or doing anything suspicious so i figured we were safe , for now .
they sat down across from us .
i noticed that seth was avoiding my eyes .
so whose crazy idea was it to meet under a truce when were having so much fun wreaking havoc on each other ?
jason asked .
emily sighed and pointed at me , this crazy person right here .
so what do you want ?
he continued and eyed me .
i took a small , quiet breath and said what i had planned , i want to work on the dwarf problem .
i nodded towards emily , signaling her to take out her paper .
she groaned and pulled the folded piece of paper out of her pocket .
she unfolded it and placed it in front of us .
while we studied it , i tried to catch seths eye , but he didnt look at me .
i felt something boil deep within me-the anger at him .
we were his best friends , we told each other everything and now he was keeping something from us .
i could see it was eating at him , so why didnt he tell us what it was ?
that was the question that was making me steam .
seth out with it !
i didnt know why i shouted .
i startled him and he looked up at me .
what do you mean , jazell ?
i mean tell me what youre hiding !
i yelled at him .
he stood up , im not hiding anything .
his voice was level but it shook slightly .
i stepped towards him and gave him a hard shove .
he stumbled back and fell on the ground .
he looked up at me , waiting for what i would do next .
why are you keeping a secret from me ?
i repeated , my voice as cold as an icicle .
seth didnt answer me , instead he did the most cowardly and annoying thing you can do .
the idiot ran off .
seth pushed himself up at a surprising speed and raced off into the woods .
i did the crazy thing that people like me would do and followed him .
i looked over my shoulder to see if emily and jason were coming but both of them stared at me , baffled .
their faces disappeared as i was swallowed by the trees .
i skidded to a halt and scanned the trees .
i didnt see any trace of where seth could have ran .
that shows how much i know about asking questions .
i dont get the answers and boom ; i lose it and become a demanding person .
i walked more slowly , watching the trees .
i sent a silent prayer that seth hadnt entered igneeria , because then i would never find him .
what bugged me the most was that seth didnt fight me when i pushed him down .
he just sat on the ground not saying anything at all in his own defense .
now , i couldnt find him anywhere and i would never get my answer .
i heard a large snap to my right and i whirled around .
i heard another crack and i slowly crept towards the noise .
another snap sounded , louder this time , to my left .
i changed direction and hid behind a tree .
i peeked around it .
seth grabbed another stick and slammed it into a tree .
it hit the tree with a loud crack and broke in half .
he picked up another and rammed it again .
he went to grab another one but his fingers couldnt grasp it .
they shook so hard he dropped it and he sunk to the ground .
i saw him place his head under his arms and he curled himself in a tight bundle .
he shook and i heard him do something that i thought seth never did .
he cried .
i stepped out from behind the tree and walked over to him .
he didnt hear me , or look up .
i wasnt mad at him anymore for not telling me what i wanted to know .
now i felt bad that i had nagged him so hard that he was breaking .
i walked over to him and wrapped my arms around his body .
he stopped crying and i felt him squirm .
seth grunted and then mumbled , get off me .
no , not until you tell me whats going on , i said .
he groaned .
seriously jazell , nothing is wrong .
now get off me .
i rolled my eyes but he couldnt see that .
youre a horrible liar seth .
i know , i felt him sigh .
please jazell its nothing you need to worry about , okay ?
just leave me be , i will deal with it .
i let my arms fall and seth lifted his head .
his eyes were red from crying but something in his eyes showed he was still seth .
the same darn stubborn and annoying seth i was friends with .
that let me relax a little .
he faced me , you should go back to the others .
i bet theyre probably wondering no way , i cut in .
im not leaving until i get my answer .
seth traced the dirt with the end of a stick .
you say im stubborn i laughed and he continued , listen , i dont even know if its true or not .
theres no need for me to worry any of you .
thats why i didnt say anything .
i still dont care , seth .
i said .
he made a face , jazell i really dont know if i should say anything i interrupted him again , seth just give up trying to talk me into not listening .
its a waste of breath .
i took my own stick and threw it at him .
he ducked , of course , and it landed on the ground .
what if whatever youre not telling us happens and we never knew ?
how would that help anyone ?
he looked down and mumbled something that sounded like , you couldnt help .
when he looked back up he said , fine you win , ill tell you .
he didnt sound happy about it .
im waiting .
you know , when emily asked for any warnings that we were given ?
yeah .
i had a bad feeling where this was going .
i lied .
i blinked in amazement .
you lied to emily ?
shes going kill you .
he smiled faintly .
she doesnt need to know .
so a dwarf told you something ?
why didnt you tell us ?
i asked .
seth looked away .
it didnt actually include you or anyone else , so i did n't say anything .
he paused .
they said that i would betray you all and be kojas ' servant .
i would be the key to the downfall of igneeria .
i do n't know what to do jazell ; i do n't even know if those things are true .
they wo n't attack me and i swear , if you gave them a minute , i bet they would help me .
he was talking so fast the words almost blurred together .
i do n't know what to say seth , i said .
maybe you should n't worry , maybe they 're wrong .
you can control what happens .
if you say it wo n't happen , it wo n't .
i hope you 're right , he said .
me too .
the mood was perfect .
i saw seth relax a little and the look on his face was more like himself .
i was perfectly happy with the way everything was right now until i saw the small outline of a toad dwarf nearby .
uh seth i do n't think this is the best time to mention this but i think we have company .
i pointed to the shape .
he swore under his breath , and we both entered the dwarf 's world together .
sure enough , it was a dwarf but there was something strangely different about this particular dwarf .
he just walked toward us as if he was n't afraid that i might put an arrow through his head .
just as i was about to release my arrow , the dwarf cried , please stop !
i dont know why i listened to him but i didnt pull the string .
the dwarf was acting different than the others ; its pudgy eyes were filled with fear at the sight of my arrow .
why ?
seth growled .
your kind has done nothing good to us except make us confused and our lives more complicated .
the dwarf looked startled .
oh youll have to excuse my brethren ; they have a tendency to be rather annoying .
he took a long frightened look at seths sword .
good sir , before you try to slay me , i have a message to deliver from her majesty .
i lowered my bow because i had a feeling i wanted to know what this message was .
if it was a lie , seth and i could kill him anyway in a blink of an eye .
seth , maybe we should hear what he has to say .
ive had enough of listening to dwarfs , seth hissed .
all they bring me is bad news .
the dwarf was trembling .
oh please , sir , listen to the good lady !
i do not bring news that will cause you pain , but i bring news of the pain of others .
you must listen , it is my task !
seth looked at me and i nodded .
he sighed and lowered his weapon to the ground , its tip digging into the dirt .
the dwarf relaxed a little , but its body was still full of tension .
thank you , sir !
he squeaked .
her majesty requests that i tell you about youre real destiny .
she believes youve been in the dark long enough .
what do you mean ?
i questioned .
our real destiny ?
yes , he said , a little more relaxed , it must take place in igneeria , where you are truly needed .
my brow furrowed in confusion .
but wait , arent we in igneeria right now ?
the dwarf gave a quick , half-hearted laugh .
no miss , you are far from igneeria .
youre in the half-way , the place between earth and igneeria .
the half-way can act as a gate , or passage into earth .
it seals off the two worlds and if a monster were to make it as far as the half-way , it would have a truly difficult time completing its journey because it wont find a way in or out of this place .
so let me get this straight , i said slowly , were not in igneeria right now but some half-way ?
the dwarf nodded , happily .
so wheres igneeria ?
the dwarf rubbed his stubby chin .
the entrance changes but its current location is in your town .
thats how i got here .
but dont get the half-way confused with igneeria , miss , for they are quite different .
especially now , with all the dark events that have been occurring because of his rising .
you mean kojas ?
i asked .
shh !
not here , not anywhere !
he said quickly .
never say his name unless youre sure hes not around .
his name can summon him or others .
you understand , do not say his name !
alright , alright i get it !
i said .
i dont have to be told a million times .
now what else do you need to tell us about our destiny .
i included air quotes around destiny .
he stared at me happily .
oh you have to come to igneeria , miss .
wow wait , hold it !
i held my hands out .
buddy , you just show up talking about some destiny that we dont know about and then you say that we have to come to some place thats not here , and you expect us to go ?
what about our families and people whod ask questions , if we disappear .
what do we say , oh sorry about that everyone , we just felt like leaving earth to go to this magical place called igneeria to do something that we dont know about .
well of course , there will be some minor difficulties , he said .
minor ?
i squeaked .
seriously , did you not hear a word i just said ?
he placed his pudgy hands on his small hips .
miss dont you think that her majesty would have this all planned out ?
you dont have to worry .
seth twirled his sword .
why not , we have to tell our parents something .
sir , dont worry about a thing .
all you need to do is go home .
everything has been arranged .
what do you mean , arranged ?
seth asked sharply .
the dwarf seemed to bounce up and down .
it has sir , but i dont know what her majesty did .
all i know is that all of you have to go home to get ready .
my mind whirled with all this new information .
wait , why do we have to go ?
what is this destiny ?
the dwarf gave a feeble smile .
all of you must free our world from darkness , from him .
*** seth and i walked back to our clearing , both our brains not thinking .
it was too much to take in at once .
destroy kojas ?
we could barely take on a mass of monsters without dying , so how were we suppose to take down an evil , powerful demon ?
as the trees parted away to show the empty ground , i spotted emily and jason looking like they were about to go to war with a bunch of sticks .
when they saw us appear , both dropped their weapons and smiled at us .
typical cover up .
hey seth , it looks like jazell didnt kill you after all , emily said and flashed me a grin .
what was that all about anyway , jazell ?
i opened my mouth to spill the whole truth when seth glanced at me .
i sighed at his expression , knowing that i couldnt tell anyone if seth didnt want me to .
i didnt want to make it worse by revealing what i knew .
when i didnt reply , she covered her mouth with her hand to try to cover her chuckles .
oh then , she giggled , i hope you two had a nice chat .
stop it emily !
i snapped and felt my face burn .
she snickered .
okay whatever you say , jazell .
we have to tell you guys something , i told her and jason about how the dwarf had showed up and what he said about igneeria .
emily listened quietly but when i got to the part that we were supposed to go there , her mouth fell open .
thats completely crazy !
emily gasped .
were supposed to just leave and go there ?
what about our parents ?
he told me , and i quote , miss did you not think that her majesty would have this all planned out ?
you dont have to worry .
i personally think its all a little skeptical , dont you ?
yes , she said , digging for a pencil and paper from my bag , i do .
we dont even know who this majesty is and if this information is reliable .
i understand the half-way part , that makes sense , but the destiny part doesnt .
i sighed and sat down on the log .
the dwarf said to meet him tomorrow morning near the thorn that reaches the sky .
what does that mean anyway ?
jason stepped over and spoke instead of emily , who was furiously writing everything down , as if shed forget in a couple of seconds , it could be a description of something in town , maybe a building or a landmark .
i suddenly got an idea and took another piece of paper out .
hey jason maybe you could draw what you think it might be and that would help us .
ill try my best , jazell , he said .
i knew that his drawing would probably help us .
he was the best artist i knew , his artwork was almost real .
hey guys , emily piped up from her paper , i think we should get home and speak to our parents .
i want to see what this dwarf was talking about when he said that everything was already arranged .
i agree .
i grabbed my backpack .
wait , are we going to go ?
seth and jason grinned at me and said together , you bet .
that is if we can find the place , emily reminded them .
i turned the door knob and walked into the kitchen .
my mom and dad were sitting in the living room looking extremely excited .
before i even had a chance to say hi , my mom jumped up and rushed over to me .
you never told us that you applied for a summer camp !
my mom squealed happily .
you also didnt tell us that you were to be picked from the best .
congratulations !
she hugged me .
um , i choked out in surprise as i was squeezed , i wanted it to beuha surprise .
i managed to get the words out and seem intelligent .
my mom released me from her clamp-like hug , well i am surprised , and very proud !
thank you ?
i said slowly .
this must have been the dwarfs plan .
would have been nice if he had warned me , i thought bitterly .
my dad got up and glowed happily behind my mom .
we are very proud , jazell .
youre supposed to leave tomorrow , so you better pack .
im going to go do that .
i said quickly , while i backed up towards the stairs .
as soon as i reached them , i shot up so fast you would think i was running for my life .
i closed the door , locking it behind me and then dialed emilys cell phone as fast as i could .
i sat on my bed as the phone rang three times before i heard it click .
jazell you wouldnt believe what my parents just told me .
they say i signed up for some camp and- i know the same thing happened to me , i interrupted her quickly .
i hear her breathe heavily , this is crazy , its just happening too fast .
we have to go or well be in big trouble with our parents .
but the thing is we dont know where this meeting place is and- she was cut off by the ringing of my phone .
wait a minute emily , ill have to put you on hold .
she huffed in reply so i pressed a button and said , hello ?
its me , jazell , jasons voice said breathlessly .
i know where the meeting place is .
great jason , where is it ?
i asked .
a shuffle of paper sounded as jason moved around .
its at the art statue , the one we call the rising hill .
its in the park , remember ?
of course , when we were younger , we used to try to climb it .
i replied .
i heard jason chuckle .
who could forget ?
so i guess ill see you there ?
of course , jason , ill tell emily .
ill tell seth then .
see ya .
emilys voice came back .
well , who was it ?
it was jason , he found the meeting place , i said .
its the public art piece we use to climb .
that makes sense .
she paused .
i have to go , dinner .
bye emily , i whispered .
see you tomorrow .
bye .
she clicked off .
after dinner i was laying in bed , my mind spinning .
i still couldnt believe where i was going tomorrow .
to igneeria .
chapter 6 i opened my eyes the next morning , the suns rays shinning through my bedroom window .
i didnt roll out of bed for a minute ; instead i lay staring at the ceiling trying to prepare my brain for the day ahead .
i heard my mom and dad walking downstairs , talking excitedly about where they thought i was going to go today .
i rolled off my bed and walked sleepily over to my dresser to pull out a pair of jeans and a shirt .
after i had pulled the shirt over my head , i grabbed my half empty traveling bag and headed down stairs .
i dropped my bag near the door and walked over to the kitchen table .
my mom had placed a full plate of eggs and toast on the table ; i sat down and started to eat .
my mom hurried over and glanced at her watch .
you have about a half an hour until you have to leave .
eat up .
i responded with a quick shovel of food .
within 25 minutes , i was standing by the door with my stomach all queasy .
my mom rushed forward and gave me a quick hug .
be careful now and enjoy yourself !
right i will i said uneasily .
no doubt that i was going to be very careful indeed .
i stepped outside and the door closed behind me .
my mom and dad watched from the window , waving happily to me .
i returned a slow , uncertain wave and hurried off towards the park .
as i entered the park , i spotted the rising public art statue .
the shape twisted and stretched towards the sky , trying to touch it .
now that i really thought of it , it did look like a thorn .
i dropped my bag and leaned my back against the statue , closing my eyes .
i wondered what igneeria would be like .
maybe the place would be pretty decent jazell ?
emilys voice scattered my thoughts and i opened my eyes to see her walking briskly towards me .
she too had an empty bag slung over her shoulder .
she dropped her bag next to mine and leaned against the statue .
nobody spoke for awhile .
finally emily opened her mouth and said , what are you thinking about ?
what ?
the question had caught me by complete surprise .
what are you thinking about ?
she repeated .
surely you must be thinking something ; were going to some other world !
i closed my eyes .
i was just wondering what it would be like in igneeria .
what about you ?
well , she said thoughtfully , i was thinking about kojas- emily dont say his name , i dont feel like being yelled at again .
i interrupted her .
fine , she said , a little annoyed .
i was thinking about him , if i must call him that , and what hes like .
i rolled my eyes .
emily isnt it obvious ; hes evil for crying out loud .
thats why we have to go and stop him .
i know that jazell , gosh , but i was wondering what he looks like .
i dont want to know , i said .
emily twirled her hair , i know but im just curious .
i bit my lip .
if we do end up fighting this guy , youll get your wish .
minutes later , jason emerged from the trees and dropped his travel bag on the ground .
he leaned against the statue next to emily , giving us both feeble smiles .
so , he said , trying to sound happy , travel day today , huh ?
we didnt answer .
okay looks like ill do the talking , jason said .
you two excited ?
emily shook her head .
no , jason were both jumping for joy , but its so deep down that instead we both look like we want to slug you , i said sarcastically .
jason sighed , okay , you would say something like that .
i thought in a mood like this you would be lessannoying .
as soon as he finished his sentence , i wacked him as hard as i could .
seth showed up after that , placed his bag on the ground , leaned on the statue next to me , and didnt say a word .
we all stood there waiting for the dwarf to show up .
right as i was about to give up and say we had the wrong place , he appeared .
jason saw his blurry outline first and signaled us to enter the half-way .
the wind whirled around me , and i walked over to the dwarf with the others .
the dwarf was breathing heavily , trying to catch his breath .
all four of us stood there waiting and when he got his breath back , he spoke .
i am glad that you accepted my message , he said to seth and me .
then he turned to emily and jason and said , ah , its great to meet the other two .
he beamed at all four of us .
hi , emily said , looking a little freaked out .
so now that youre here , are we going to get a move on or what ?
oh of course , follow me please .
he shuffled off and disappeared behind the statue .
jason raised an eyebrow .
where is he going ?
emily sighed .
theres only one way to find out .
she walked behind the statue .
seth , jason , and i followed her .
as soon as i was on the other side , i gasped at what i saw .
in front of me was an archway .
two entwined hooks were mounted on the top .
each side was twisted metal that ended in the ground .
in the center , two pieces spun together and ended holding a pulsing , black crystal .
you should have been able to look right through the archway but there seemed to be a sheet of transparent black glass in the way .
this is the door to igneeria , the dwarf pronounced proudly .
i fought the urge to say , no duh !
jason looked up , mesmerized .
epic .
epic ?
seth scoffed .
thats all you can say ?
this , he motioned to the dark archway , ca n't be described by one word .
i smiled to myself .
the old seth seemed to be coming back , which was great .
i was getting really tired of quiet , watching seth .
then how about the coolest thing on earth ?
jason asked .
seth shook his head .
no , its not even a part of earth .
try creepy , but cool .
emily rolled her eyes .
boys , i still dont know how they find this interesting .
she pointed to jason and seth , who were continuing to guess random names to describe the arch .
i mean , who cares !
am i right about them ?
yes , completely , i said and fought a laugh .
dont try to understand or youll get lost in the complicated labyrinths that are their brains .
i think this is the most thinking the two have ever done , emily said with a sigh and shook her head , making her pink curls dance .
its just sad .
i was about to say something else when the dwarf gave a loud cough .
jason and seth fell silent , outlined by the eerie glow of the arch .
you must know a few things before you enter , the dwarf said , pacing back and forth .
he reminded me of a teacher instructing a class .
first of all , once you enter , there is a chance that you wont be able to leave for a while .
my heart fell at this .
second , igneeria is wild and offers little protection .
especially at a time like this .
he gave us a hard stare .
you might get seriously injured , or you might almost die .
you must be ready for this .
i felt my stomach do sick flip-flops .
i wasnt ready .
anyway , the dwarf said quickly , obviously seeing our surprised faces , i think all of you can deal with that .
shall we go ?
seth shrugged , i guess .
the answer to that question doesnt really matter .
the dwarf held his hand out , shall we go then ?
i shrugged , lead the way , shorty .
the dwarf gave me an annoyed look and walked towards the arch .
i expected him to go right through but he disappeared in a swirl of black mist .
jason shrugged and ran in after him .
wait jason , emily called .
dang , never mind .
she disappeared too .
i went to follow her and hesitated .
seth walked up to me , you nervous ?
why shouldnt i be ?
i said , shaking .
is going to a different world supposed to be vacation-relaxing-in-the-sun easy ?
he smirked , i never said that .
you implied it , i said , with a roll of my eyes .
he sighed and pushed me into the doorway , the dark , swirling mist swallowing me up .
i felt his hands leave my back for a second and then they were back .
the chilly feeling welcomed me , like a long lost friend .
as soon as the mist cleared , i was standing in a forest clearing .
the sky was hazy and dreary , making me want to run back to earth .
but when i turned around , the door was gone .
emily looked terrified , her eyes bigger than the eerie moon above .
jason was frozen next to her , eyes darting around at the shadows .
the dwarf stood perfectly calm in front of us .
no one spoke because there was nothing to say .
i heard rustling in the trees and dozens of creatures came thundering out .
i noticed thrashers , frost beasts , swamp trolls and many others i have never seen .
they lumbered towards us , teeth flashing in the moon light .
seth whirled around on the dwarf .
you set us up !
he hissed , sword drawn .
this was all a trap !
the dwarf 's eyes widened in alarm , i swear , sir , that i knew nothing of this !
i warned you that you must be prepared for anything .
seth , i said slowly , placing a hand on his shoulder , do n't attack him , we need him to help us get through igneeria .
i felt his shoulder muscle tense under my fingers but he lowered his blade .
he did n't sheath it though , because he would need it in the fight .
he glowered at the dwarf , do n't think that i trust you , dwarf , he said angrily .
you 're only alive because jazell makes a good point .
but if i find that you are lying to us , he sliced the air , you 're going to have a lot more problems than you think .
the dwarf gulped and looked away .
i gripped seth 's shoulder and he turned around to face me .
i saw distrust flash in his eyes but he gave me a weak smile .
we turned to face the monsters heading for us .
seth charged ahead , slicing thrashers and frost beasts .
i notched an arrow and released it .
it soared into a swamp toll 's head , making it shout out in agony .
seth spun around and plunged his sword into the troll 's side .
it gave a screech and fell to the floor , dead .
emily raised her hands and vines shot from the ground and wrapped around a troll that had tried to crush seth .
i aimed an arrow at its chest and the troll fell to the ground next to the others .
the last beast fell , dead from jason 's knife , and we all took in a deep breath .
seth sheathed his sword and i slung my bow back on my back .
emily sat on the ground next to jason , seth and me as the dwarf stood in front of us .
sadly , he started , i can not be with you all anymore .
i must leave and go back to her ...
wait a minute !
seth exclaimed , jumping up .
you 're leaving us ?
you little ... seth !
i protested and stepped in front of him .
do n't you dare think about killing him .
he got us here- and he 's leaving us here in some random place when we have no clue what to do or where we 're going , seth interrupted me .
the dwarf shook his head .
i 'm very sorry , sir , but her majesty told me to bring you here and then to report back .
i must tell her about the ambush , someone knew i was bringing you here .
do n't you have to bring us to her ?
seth asked .
the dwarf cocked his head .
no , she will see you when she believes you are ready , he turned around and disappeared into the woods .
wait !
i yelled and ran after him .
wait , jazell , seth called after me and i heard him follow .
the trees parted and the dwarf stood in front of me .
he gave me a small smile .
i do wish you luck , miss .
i hope you survive .
please help us , i begged .
we need your help .
he shook his head .
i 'm very sorry , miss , but i ca n't .
he gave me another smile and was gone .
jazell , i heard emily say .
i turned around to see her smiling at me .
we 'll be fine .
emily 's right , seth said .
we do n't need him .
if he does n't want to help us then it 's his fault if we do n't get where we need to go .
we should find somewhere to stay for the night , jason suggested .
seth nodded and we followed him deeper into the dark woods .
i walked beside emily as the trees passed us .
things seemed to watch us from the shadows and i felt like some poor little kid who was afraid to be a victim of a halloween jump-out-of-the-bush scare trick .
i shivered in silent fear .
emily studied me , are you cold ?
do you need to get warmed up ?
a little flame of fire flickered to life in her palm .
i gave a shaky laugh .
no , i 'm not that kind of cold .
she put the little flame out .
ah , i know what you mean , she said and hugged me .
i 'm feeling the same way .
but do n't worry , they , she motioned to the boys , do n't have to know .
they 'll find out eventually , i mumbled .
but that does n't have to been now .
i bet they must have some kind of fear themselves .
i shivered .
it 's like going throw the bogey-man 's home .
he must not get a lot of visitors , emily commented .
i 'm defiantly not coming over anytime soon .
emily laughed and the boys stopped walking .
the trees parted to reveal a rock ledge .
i spotted a small cave , the entrance covered in thick , twisted bramble .
the sky was getting even darker and more ominous when seth turned around to face us .
we 'll head for the cave and stay there for the night , seth said .
then we 'll set off .
emily crossed her arms .
who made you in charge ?
you have a better idea , emily ?
seth snorted .
or maybe you 'd prefer to sleep in the open .
uh i think i 'll stay with that plan , she said quickly .
but you 're a grump seth .
she pushed past him and headed the path to the cave .
you are , seth , i said .
i followed emily , with jason and seth on my heels .
when we reached the blocked cave entrance , seth drew his sword and sliced the vines apart .
they fell to the ground and the cave was revealed .
we walked inside the dimly lit space and i sighed in relief at some safety .
the air smelled musty and i had a feeling no one had ever been here .
i sat on the floor next to emily and the boys sat on the opposite side of the floor .
we should all get some rest , seth said with a yawn .
we can figure out what to do next when we wake up .
i nodded sleepily and laid down on the hard ground .
i closed my eyes , feeling a strange tiredness come over me .
i barely heard seth mumbled , i do n't like our situation at all .
that night , i had the weirdest dream .
i was standing on a dark cliff , the eerie moon high in the sky .
the wind whipped at my hair , causing me to see the green strands in front of my eyes .
the cold nipped at my cheeks and nose , which i tried to rub back to warmth .
i stood at the edge of the cliff and gasped when i looked down .
underneath me , hundreds of monsters gathered around a fight .
i couldnt see who was fighting inside because a swamp troll blocked my view , but i knew it was brutal the way they whooped at a screech of pain .
i wanted to close my eyes and look away , but i was so curious to see what was going on , that i couldnt .
the crowd parted to reveal the scariest and most hideous thing ive ever seen .
it must have been some type of faery because i could see long , pointed ears sticking up from the sides of its head .
long , black hair was stuck out in all directions on top of its head looking slimy and dirty .
sharp , twisted horns sat on top of its head , gleaming in the dark .
a long , billowing black cloak spiraled out behind it , completely covering the rest of its body .
its eyes shined red and full of hate , although there was a terrible smile that danced on its face .
victory !
it boomed in a chilling voice .
the crowds of monsters roared in applause and excitement .
the trolls banged their clubs on the ground , on their chests , and even on each other .
the howl of a frost beast rose into the night , making me feel even more chilled .
i wanted to wake up .
but i couldnt .
i needed to find out what that thing was and what it had killed .
i also had a horrible feeling , deep down that made me know that this wasnt a dream but some type of vision .
this was happening in real life , right now in igneeria .
that proved that igneeria had worse things to hide than what we thought was bad .
the thing walked forward and the crowd parted to make it a path , falling silent .
i find myself creeping back until i could barely see the scene below .
i was afraid that it would see me .
then i got a glimpse of what it had killed and i had to hold back my tears .
the poor body of the dwarf who had brought us here was lying in a contorted heap , limbs twisted in all directions .
the scene was awful and i had to prevent myself from throwing up .
then i knew why they beat and killed him .
all the other dwarves were on kojas .
this dwarf must have betrayed kojas to bring information to whoever her majesty was and to help us into igneeria .
i suddenly knew that this dwarf was much braver than we had given him credit for .
i suddenly felt awful because i knew who the thing was .
kojas .
chapter 7 the little traitor thought he could fool us , kojas announced , but he was wrong .
his death does not matter to me but what matters is what he could have said and done against us .
he may have spilled too much .
but it does not matter !
he continued , his voice flowing with reassurance .
i have knowledge that the half-lings have entered our world and our grasp .
the dwarf may have done us a favor , bringing them here , without knowing it .
my help , my prize travels with them .
he will bring us to victory , the half-ling boy !
the crowd roared louder than ever , fueled by the thought of victory .
anger rose inside me with every word kojas said .
seth would not help them and the dwarf did n't make a mistake .
the only one making the mistake was kojas .
the crowd fell silent as he said , we will find them and kill them .
than nothing will be in our way !
my disbelief grew and a single howl sounded above all .
i felt the ground disappear underneath me as i woke up to the safety of the cave .
i opened my eyes and had to squint because the light was so strong .
i sat up and leaned against the wall , looking around .
the sun shone brightly through the cave 's entrance , making dirt particles appear in the air .
seth was leaning on the wall , twirling his sword in the dirt , not appearing to notice that i was awake .
emily and jason were sitting in the center of the cave , playing some kind of hand game .
jason hit emily in the arm and she started yelling at .
so , this is typical thing to wake up to .
i stood up and walked over to seth .
he looked up from the ground and saw my troubled face .
what 's wrong , jazell ?
i need to speak to you , i said in a low voice , alone .
seth nodded in understanding and i followed him out of the cave .
we stood off to the side near the edge of the cliff where emily and jason could n't see us .
for a minute , i did n't say anything because i did n't know what to say .
i hesitated , but knew that if i told anyone about the dream , it would be seth .
so what was the point in waiting ?
i had a dream last night , i began .
only it was n't really a dream , but more of a vision .
seth nodded .
what was it about ?
i told him about the cliff and how kojas had killed the dwarf .
i hesitated but told him what kojas said about him too , and i saw him stiffen .
i 'm sorry , i found myself saying .
seth shook his head .
it 's not your fault that he said those things about me .
i 'm happy you did n't try to keep it from me .
what should we do ?
i asked desperately .
well we know that the dwarf is dead and that kojas knows we 're here , seth said .
we also know he 's going to be looking for all of us .
so ?
so ?
seth mimicked and smiled .
we do what we always do .
we 'll just step up our game and do a little more running than we 're used to .
no problem , right ?
ya , i said , feeling the fear creep up again .
no problem .
jazell , it 's okay to be scared , seth looked me in the eye .
i 'll admit to you , only you , that i 'm scared too .
no , i said with mock surprise .
you ?
scared ?
never .
he gave me a light shove .
hey smarty pants do n't be sarcastic with me .
i just gave you a huge secret .
i laughed and shoved him back , do n't tell me what to do , bossy .
well , he teased , at least i 'm not going around making fun of friends who are scared .
i opened my mouth to say something smart when i heard a small , ahem , at the cave entrance .
i looked over my shoulder to see emily standing there , leaning against the rock wall , smiling in a way that made you happy ... but scared .
i mentally braced myself for whatever was coming from my eavesdropping friend .
so , she said casually , what are you guys talking loudly about ?
uh ... was all my brain could compute .
luckily seth saved me .
what 's wrong with two crazy , half-ling kids going outside in the morning because they 're both tired of listening to their other two friends bicker while they play hand games ?
well , you know it 's weird that you two are talking alone , without letting the rest of us know what it is , she shot back .
unless you two are hiding something from us ?
nice save , seth .
um ...
i said .
why would we hide anything from you two ?
emily put her hands on her hips .
i do n't know , but you two are acting like you are hiding something .
she stopped and gave me a wicked smile .
unless you two were not talking- god no , emily !
i interrupted her .
no way , we were just trying to get away from you two because i just woke up and you guys are really loud first thing in the morning .
she sighed .
fine , do n't bite my head off jazell , i was just asking a question .
then she turned and disappeared back in the cave .
seth let out a huge breath .
wow , i 'm glad she left .
i had the feeling that she knew we were hiding something .
he hunched over me .
because we are .
do you think we should tell them about my vision ?
i asked .
he chewed his lip in frustration .
maybe we should , but not include the parts about me .
seth , i said slowly hoping he did n't get mad at me , we should tell them what 's going on with you eventually .
what if kojas comes for you and they have no clue why- no !
he said sharply , and the tone of his voice surprised me .
i ca n't jazell , i would n't have told you if you had n't ran after me demanding to know what i was hiding .
but you 're happy i did , right ?
i asked .
he looked away .
yes i am .
it 's a lot better than hiding this on my own .
the secret just keeps getting bigger .
i rolled my eyes .
emily will find out eventually , and when she does , she 'll kill you for keeping a secret from her .
let 's hope it is n't until you and i figure this thing out .
i nodded and walked back into the cave .
emily and jason watched us enter and i swallowed nervously .
seth gave me a small nod , signaling me to start telling them about my dream .
listen guys , i had a dream , i said and repeated my dream again , minus the part about seth .
emily and jason listened to every word i said .
when i got to the part about kojas , emily 's mouth made a small o and jason 's eyes widened .
my voice shook as i recalled the dwarf 's dead body .
that 's awful !
emily said , her voice shaking .
she hopped over and gave me a small embrace .
i 'm sorry you had to see that .
uh ... thanks emily , i said and allowed myself to be hugged .
she bounced back over to jason 's side and waited for me to continue but there was nothing else to say .
i had told her everything i needed to tell her .
did she somehow know that i was n't telling her the whole story ?
i looked at seth out of the corner of my eye and saw him doing the same .
we needed to talk longer and more in depth about the situation we were sharing .
so , emily said and tapped her fingers on the cave wall , is that all ?
yes .
well then , she looked us in the eyes , what are we waiting for ?
let 's get a move on and leave this small , damp cave .
i shrugged and followed her out .
the sky was lit but still had a gloomy feeling mixed in with the warmth .
i felt a sense of dread as we entered the never-ending forest again .
a few rays fought their way through the thick canopy of trees , making it possible to see what was around you .
seth led the way as we followed a faint path through the unknown .
i was bringing up the rear of the line , emily in front of me .
i watched her cloak swish around her ankles , the rhythm surprisingly soothing to me .
the silence was unnatural , and i felt like there should be some kind of sound .
i should n't have thought that .
out of nowhere i heard a single rattle .
then it suddenly stopped .
a feeling of unease rose inside of me but i kept walking .
then another rattle that did n't end sounded , vibrating all around us .