wara turned back to her and took in her friend 's pale , heart-shaped face framed in dyed blond ringlets .
she was sheathed in a puffy pink coat , mounds of pink scarves , and a snow white knit hat with pale pink sparkles .
the jeep hit another hard rut just as nazaret sneezed , a cute , shrill little sound that was all but muffled in tiny pink alpaca mittens .
`` i hov i can still help you wif de kids , '' she sniffled , bleary hazel eyes turned on noah , who patted her on the white knit cap with a few encouraging words .
they all jerked to attention as the jeep braked to a halt in a sudden spray of gravel .
when the group piled out of the car , they discovered the air outside the car was even colder than inside .
even though it would look ridiculous , wara almost wished she was wearing snow pants , just like when she was little growing up in montana .
the frayed jeans and hippie tunic she had on under the alpaca sweater were not doing anything to keep her warm .
frozen fingers brushed lazily over her cheeks from the hulking mountains all around them .
off in the distance , something howled .
nazaret covered her nose with one mitten to muffle another sharp sneeze and it echoed off the mountains in the night .
`` 'scuse me . ''
noah cheerfully pushed past wara , carting a gigantic burlap sack of potatoes .
`` coming through , '' nazaret 's father followed him , hauling a second bag of something edible .
wara huddled next to nazaret for a minute , watching as the guys hefted the food and sleeping bags onto a haggle of scrawny burros .
a few quechua guys in black jackets and slacks had materialized from an adobe hut and were helping to arrange everything on the donkeys by the light of a shimmering bonfire .
pastor martir , who came every year to preach at this rural bible conference in potosi , said that it was best to climb the mountain at night , when it was cooler .
right now , wara really hoped he knew what he was talking about .
they still had a seven-hour hike ahead of them , up the forested granite .
she stifled a heavy yawn and fixed her gaze on the diamond stars .
in the morning , she woke up to scruffy feathers and a beak .
a chicken scratched through the pebbles right outside the crumbling adobe wall of the community school house where she and the others had crashed for a few hours after the hike .
the local christians had gone to all the trouble of fixing up wooden pallets with woolen blankets here at the school , so their guests could have a private place to stay .
wara knew they had gone to a lot of trouble and hated to admit that it honestly had n't been worth going to sleep .
a well-organized army of fleas had taken up residence in the wool blankets long before she had , and she , noah , and nazaret had scratched and grumbled for a few hours before pastor martir coated their beds with raid .
maybe that was why now , with daylight streaming through the holes in the schoolhouse wall , it was so darn hard to move .
could you overdose on raid ?
wara kicked off the sleeping bag , grabbed her glasses from the dirt floor , and pulled herself to sitting .
pastor martir was already gone , probably outside at some morning prayer vigil with the quechua christians .
nazaret curled on her plank bed , still snoring .
noah 's long legs stuck out the end of his unzipped sleeping bag , leaving his filthy socked feet sprawled in the dirt near giant maroon nike tennis shoes .
when she moved to stand up , the powdery remains of dried up fleas shifted on the navy fleece of the sleeping bag .
eeww .
wara had to grin at the sight of those dried bugs .
she really loved these kind of trips .
she dusted her bare feet off on the edge of her jeans and stuffed her sockless feet into doc marten boots , hoping to find someplace outside to use the bathroom before everyone else got up .
a waist-high cluster of boulders overlooking the valley below turned out to be the best option for privacy .
she brushed her teeth with water from a dented bottle of pura vida and spit off into the deserted valley .
trailing wisps of clouds slithered around boulders below .
the only structures visible were the schoolhouse where she had slept and two sturdy adobe houses a little way down the rounded path .
a quechua lady with a huge smile was waiting in the school with a breakfast of sweet purple corn drink and boiled eggs .
she wore a knee-length circle skirt called a pollera , this one a soft sage green .
despite the morning chill , her mahogany legs were bare and she wore scuffed black plastic ballet flats .
she did have on a warm cardigan over the lacy white blouse quechua ladies always wore .
the lady bringing breakfast introduced herself as doa petronia and patted wara on the forearm in greeting , telling her how happy she was that god had brought wara to this conference .
wara smiled back wanly , even though it was a lot of fun to be speaking quechua up in the mountains again .
she still did n't feel good about the idea of her being part of this bible conference , acting like she was all sweet and good here with pastor martir , noah and the bible school students .
she felt like a fake .
still queasy , she mumbled something appropriate and tried to get down the purple api and an egg .
they assigned her to help noah , who was in charge of the kids while their parents attended bible classes .
wara had already seen him in action many times during the five years they 'd been friends , teaching bible stories to kids at the martirs ' aids center or hanging out with a little homeless kid in downtown cochabamba .
within minutes , noah had the group of kids sitting on a grassy knoll and captivated by bible songs with actions .
then he made wara come stand next to him to translate a story into quechua , one about jesus calming the stormy sea .
she grew up in church and could rattle off this story by heart , in english , spanish , or quechua .
but there was no way she could keep a group of kids glued to her every word the way noah did .
she ignored the sick feeling in her stomach and stood next to noah , feeling little and insignificant at five foot five next to his six foot three .
all she had to do was tell noah 's story to the kids in quechua .
her own failings could n't ruin the moment for the kids .
noah deserved to be listened to .
when the story was over , she could see in the kids ' eyes that they had imagined every peal of thunder , felt the shuddering of the splintered wooden boat on the open sea .
noah asked the kids to come up and stand at his side , one by one , to tell him what they were afraid of .
`` that we wo n't have enough to eat if hail destroys the crops , '' mumbled one almond-eyed little boy in a jade chullu cap .
`` i 'm afraid of the terrible goat that lives down the hill . ''
several muffled giggles scattered across the group .
`` of the thunder when it storms . ''
one short boy in a tattered soccer jersey trudged to the front when it was his turn and recited gravely , `` i 'm scared that my other brothers will become one of the missing , like my brother antonio . ''
wara scrunched up her face .
she had never heard anyone refer to someone who died as `` the missing '' before in quechua , but maybe it was a regional idiom .
she was going to have to ask around later to figure out if that was really how that phrase should be used .
i 'm such a nerd .
she blinked away thoughts of quechua grammar and brought her attention back to noah , who was beaming at the children , then her , waiting for her to translate .
`` you know , when i was little , '' he told the kids , `` there was this dog that lived a few houses away from mine , and he had really , really big teeth . ''
suddenly , strangely , noah slung an arm over wara 's shoulders , leaving the two of them facing the children together .
`` i want you to know kids , if jesus is with you , you do n't have to be scared of anything .
he 's stronger than anything in this world . ''
just as mesmerized by noah 's words as the kids , wara felt herself leaning into his side .
then the lesson was over .
`` thanks for translating , '' noah told her , then dropped his arm and smiled .
wara felt her heart do a very weird pitter-patter and she stared after him as he jogged off to chase some of the kids in a game of tag .
that attraction you 're feeling ?
she chided herself warily .
that 's just because noah is your friend .
you would never think of noah as anything more than a friend .
right ?
wara blinked , then squinted at noah , who was grabbing a giggling little kid around the shoulders and swinging him in the air .
she would be crazy to let herself think of noah as anything other than a friend .
he was much too goofy for anything else .
wara was always studying and was sometimes really grouchy .
noah was always so happy-go-lucky and watched way too many cartoons .
not exactly prince charming .
plus , he did n't really know her .
wara shook herself back to reality and headed back down towards the house , thinking she should probably help the ladies fix lunch .
the cloud-covered valley writhed with mist , licking the emerald grass at her feet .
it was hauntingly beautiful .
in the rocky dirt outside the main house she found a circle of quechua women squatting in their wide velvet pollera skirts around a plastic tub of potatoes .
the ladies skillfully attacked the miniscule purple and yellow-veined potatoes with paring knives , leaving the spuds without peel in seconds .
wara hunkered down next to the smiling lady from breakfast this morning , doa petronia .
wara had tried so hard to learn to peel potatoes like a respectable quechua woman should , but she usually ended up desecrating the potato , scraping half of it off into the scrap pile .
she fiddled around a little with the knife and a bumpy yellow potato , then decided to put her grammar question out there .
`` i was wondering about something one of the kids said .
if you say that your family member is the missing , does that mean that person died ? ''
doa petronia 's long blade faltered mid-peel and she reached up with one work-roughed hand to flip a braid behind her back .
everyone fell silent .
`` you must have heard my son edgar talking , '' she finally nodded .
`` he 's only six but he is so worried about his older brother . ''
`` or maybe it was my juan marco talking about his older brother , '' interjected a more portly woman in a royal purple pollera .
a thick layer of fat rolled out of the waist of her skirt , blanketed with the silky white undershirt the ladies wore under their short lace blouses .
she jerked her chin towards doa petronia .
`` she and i both have older sons , teenagers .
three months ago , the boys both went away , never to be heard from again . ''
`` went away ? ''
wara frowned .
`` we call them 'the missing ' . ''
doa petronia looked wara directly in the eye .
`` the boys went into llallagua to sell some potatoes , but on completely different days .
we never heard from them again .
we do not know where they could have gone .
that is why we call them and the other boys 'the missing ' . ''
`` what other boys ? ''
the two women eyed each other soberly .
`` from all over the mountains , many different communities .
all missing . ''
wara did n't know what to say .
how could these women 's sons , and boys from other communities too , just be gone ?
the pain in the women 's black eyes was evident , and wara felt horrible .
how many of the people here at the bible conference had a son or brother who had just disappeared ?
i am really glad nazaret is still off teaching somewhere .
i hope she has n't already heard about this .
the martirs were a busy household of six kids , but once upon a time there had been seven .
wara knew nazaret 's older brother had run away when he was a teenager , and she knew the serious , skinny oldest martir only from his faded photograph in a frame on nazaret 's dresser .
talking about missing kids was always enough to start nazaret weeping .
wara really hoped her friend would n't hear about this .
it would only make her think of her brother , the missing boy who was probably never going to come home .
she could identify a little with that kid in the picture , because sometimes , when she thought too much about things , wara just wanted to run away from here and start over .
except the past always follows you .
noah was running up the hill panting , with a hundred screaming quechua kids close on his heels .
even if she wanted to be with noah , she would never deserve him .
there were some things that even time could n't erase .
2 gaudy gold peshawar , pakistan 2017 alejo perched above the ancient labyrinth that was old city peshawar , counting down the seconds until he would take a man 's life .
the tri-colored apartment complex where he waited soared to the cloudless sky , cream , cinnamon , and pistachio .
a giant block of neapolitan ice cream , sizzling under the peshawar heat .
in a dusty courtyard with solid walls below , the three men who marched between grave pakistani police were mere specks to alejo .
gabriel was at the scope , reporting the details of the scene below ; benjamin lay prone as alejo did , both of them one with the black rifles propped on sandbags .
`` so , they just entered the courtyard , '' gabriel said softly .
sweat poured down his pale face from the tightly-wrapped black turban .
they were alone on the cement rooftop high over peshawar , and abandoned the pashto language for their native spanish .
`` the paki police are pretty nervous .
ok !
here come the americans .
they 've all got bullet-proof vests . ''
gabriel 's bony fingers tightened on the scope and his voice rose with excitement .
not surprising .
the u.s. army would n't want any crazy talibs to take out their precious little prisoners before they get to `` justice '' now , would they ?
but how many years would the young soldiers get for murdering afghan children across the border and posting bloody trophy pictures on the internet ?
three years in a comfy cell with three meals a day ?
that was more than most afghan children could dream of .
security was tight around that little compound with the courtyard , as the whole surrounding area would like to see the american soldiers in pakistani custody mutilated and dead .
but no one would expect a shot to come from this distance .
a cacophony of horns blasted from the matchbox cars snaking along below .
the sound would cover the shot perfectly .
alejo shifted one leg , ever so slightly , letting blood flow back into one of his thighs that had been riding a rock for the past half-hour .
`` targets are moving towards the mark , '' gabriel said calmly .
he rolled into place in the line of three men on their stomachs and positioned his gun on the sandbag .
the three of them gazed through the gun scopes now at the american prisoners , blond and thin inside their bullet-proof vests .
alejo evened his breathing and willed his weak arm still .
he drew a slow lungful of air , then held it , finger exact and deathly-still on the trigger .
he heard each beat of his heart echo in his ear , steady and slow .
he waited until one heartbeat had just drummed , then murmured in the space between , `` now . ''
below in the old city , the timing was perfect .
an ornately-painted bus lumbering around the corner of the compound honked and belched black smoke , just as alejo 's bullet entered the medulla oblongata at the base of the middle soldier 's skull and he slumped to the dirt in a crimson mist .
the other two collapsed on top of him , the part of their brains that controls involuntary movements effectively destroyed .
it took a full five seconds for all hell to break loose in the courtyard as mustachioed policemen and high-up american officials all turned up dust diving for cover .
alejo could tell there was no need to take a second shot .
he felt cold , and lowered the rifle from his eyes , staring at the dim outline of the mountains encircling the city .
still lying low , he pulled a small gray cell phone from his pocket and punched a button .
ishmael khan , recruiter from the prism and alejo 's handler , would be pacing the floor in his mansion until he heard the soldiers were dead .
alejo set his jaw , then motioned to benjamin and gabriel .
they slunk into the tri-color apartment building and into a room filled with grimy shalwar kameezs , ammunition , and cigarette butts .
afghan-made cigarettes .
this was the kind of hole taliban fighters always frequented , and whoever one day discovered this place alejo had set up would not be surprised to see a slew of rifles on the kitchen table next to the moldering rice and half-eaten naan bread .
everyone in peshawar packed lead .
slick with sweat and fine concrete dust , the three men dumped their soiled shalwar kameezs with the rest of the filthy clothes on the bathroom floor and pulled on jeans and t-shirts , the clothes of upper-class pakistani students .
with bronze skin , wavy black hair , and perfect pashto , alejo never had problems passing as a pakistani on his many trips to the country .
the other two guys on his team were also from bolivia , a little lighter-skinned than alejo but they still passed as pakistani or afghani .
`` death to the infidels , '' gabriel grinned , stuffing wads of tattered rupee bills into a bag around his thin chest .
benjamin and alejo rolled their eyes .
`` goodness , i 'm just kidding . ''
gabriel flashed merry eyes at them and winked .
`` let 's get out of here . ''
the throbbing wail of a siren cut through the heat outside the apartment building , racing towards the murdered americans .
the white orb of midday sun still blazed through the murky haze of pollution over the city .
and less than twenty blocks away , three lives had just been extinguished .
they were getting away .
the three of them would walk through this entire maze of a city , get to the khan 's house , and report a successful mission .
alejo tried to tell himself he should be happy .
at least a little .
that night , the feast at ishmael khan 's house was bounteous .
alejo and his team sat on burgundy and ivory carpets , faced with silver platters of seared roti bread and lamb curry .
milky tea simmered in bone white porcelain , rich with sugar crystals and cardamom .
the rest of his team was having the time of their life in the marble hall of the khan 's mansion , but alejo needed to get out of there .
he made his excuses to the entire clan of khan relatives and navigated peshawar 's labyrinth streets back to the apartment that was always waiting for him here in pakistan .
alejo slammed and locked the heavy wooden door and pulled a couple of guns from under his clothes .
he tossed them onto the red silk bedspread , next to the heavy religious book with ornate golden swirls .
for a second the image shocked him , and he blanched , turning to scan the familiar studio-style apartment .
he was caged in by ornate , gold-painted furniture in the seventeenth century style , including a giant gilded wardrobe that could have doubled as a coffin for king tut .
feeling sick and angry , alejo collected the two weapons and the gilded arabic book and stuffed them in his black suitcase in the corner .
the suitcase was basically empty , ready to head back to bolivia after the trip to pakistan 's tribal area khan had insisted on the day after tomorrow .
peshawar 's bazaar was full of beautiful things , but alejo 's suitcase was empty because , honestly , there was no one to bring anything home to .
in the morning his team would meet here early .
it was time to plan the next job after pakistan , something that called from alejo 's native bolivia and refused to be laid to rest .
he really hoped that killing salazar after so many years would give him some kind of peace .
it probably would n't .
alejo tossed himself onto the silk bedspread fully dressed and forced his eyes closed in the darkness , fully expecting a reunion with nightmares .
and his dreams did n't disappoint him .
the first stabs of light through the golden curtains were a welcome relief .
alejo could always sleep through anything , a habit you learned fast when you spent your time doing the things he did .
but last night had been awful .
he dumped a bucket of cold water over his head in the shower , then exercised for a couple hours til his team arrived .
by the time the knock came on the apartment door , alejo felt like he 'd been awake forever .
`` asalaam alaikum , '' the guys greeted him in the traditional muslim way one by one , pushing past him into the apartment in pale cotton shalwar kameezs .
they were all muslims , having converted at different times in their lives : high school , university , graduate school .
benjamin , a doctor in bolivia , greeted alejo now with a droll smile and watchful eyes behind wire glasses .
he wore a little brown goatee , some kind of homage to the muslim tradition of big thick beards .
alejo never even tried to grow a beard , because the scattered stubble that appeared on his chin when he did n't shave for a week was really , really pathetic .
gabriel ambled into the apartment , grinned , and gave alejo one of those manly , back-clapping hugs just inside the door , the kind only latin guys can share .
gabriel was the skinny , fair-skinned guy who could make something from anything , a regular macgyver .
only twenty-three years old , he came from an arabic-background family in bolivia .
lzaro strode in next , wearing a deep blue shalwar kameez and a wool irish cap .
he was the newest guy on alejo 's team and had been sent over from puerto rico .
lzaro was one of those guys with a permanent tan from hours of camping and rock climbing and starting fires with nothing but sticks .
last came stalin , wheezing like a badger in the hazy peshawar pollution .
stalin was pasty , with round glasses and straggly lion-colored hair parted down the middle .
the guy was a phd in philosophy and comparative religions , so he came in handy , instructing new recruits in religion .
he also was n't a bad shot .
and yes , stalin 's parents , student revolutionaries , had actually named their infant son stalin lenin gomez .
this was his team .
the organization was called the prism , because they wanted to bring god 's light to the world .
like a prism scattered light into different colors , everyone in the organization had different talents , brought the light in different ways .
by the time alejo closed the door , his team was already making themselves comfortable .
the ghastly hue that hung over the golden room after the nightmares was no match for the aroma of the expensive colombian coffee gabriel was dumping into the coffeemaker .
benjamin produced fresh roti bread and goat cheese from a paper sack , and stalin was already stretching his legs out on the bed .
those socks looked like they had seen a good week of adventure in peshawar without a wash .
this was life in pakistan .
alejo felt a grin coming on , and he plopped down at the table , pushing aside an ugly vase of melon-colored , gold-coated roses .
`` the coffee smells strong today , '' gabriel nodded proudly .
`` just how we like it . ''
benjamin was quietly spreading goat cheese on a piece of bread , leaning his chair up against the wall next to alejo .
`` you seem to be in an especially good mood today , gabo .
have n't seen ambrin again , have you ? ''
gabriel 's green eyes took on saucer form and steaming coffee sloshed over the edge of his cup , wetting the top of his sandal on the way down .
stalin frowned and stopped stuffing grapes into his mouth from yet another sack of food the guys had carried in .
`` oh come on you guys !
leave poor gabriel alone !
you know he does n't like to be teased about ambrin . ''
gabriel had by now managed to get a grip on his coffee , but his usually-pale neck was now stained scarlet .
`` yeah you guys , we should n't even be talking about her .
you know i ca n't see her ?
it would n't be right .
we 're not even engaged .
she knows i did n't mean to see her without a veil that one time . ''
`` but that 's when you fell in love , is n't it ? ''
benjamin commented without looking up from the cheese .
the whole team knew it was .
walking in the garden at the khan 's mansion one day , gabriel had run into ishmael 's niece , ambrin ?
without a veil .
all the guys knew the story by now : sapphire eyes , and gabriel was instantly in love .
he was trying to get up the nerve to ask for her hand in marriage .
alejo let them go on about it for a while , because he really was dreading the thing he was about to bring up .
stalin , mouth still full of food , beat him to it .
`` so , '' he asked , polishing his little glasses on the tail of his long kameez shirt and spewing crumbs , `` who 's up to be the next speaker at our retreat ? ''
by speaker , he meant the next target .
lzaro , who always seemed to have an opinion about everything , set his feet apart on the floor and leaned forward to eye them all intensely .
`` i would nominate the southern baptist mission house back in cochabamba .
the world could n't be a much worse place without them , right ? ''
a grin stretched his tanned face and benjamin seemed to agree with him .
alejo fought a sour expression .
was the guy never going to let it go ?
he 'd only known lzaro for six months , and had already overdosed on the guy 's hatred for americans .
and missionaries .
word on the street was that lzaro had dated a cute missionary girl who later dumped him , thus the dislike of anything missionary or american .
alejo thought that lzaro just wanted an excuse to do whatever he wanted .
`` i 've already lined up the next speaker , '' alejo shook his head .
he tried to sit up straight but felt the three cups of coffee he 'd just downed settling in his gut like cool acid .
sweat trickled down his ribs and he saw blackened fingers through tall white grass , fought the urge to gag .
`` well whoever it is , i think it would be a lot more beneficial to get rid of all those missionaries preaching pie-in-the-sky while letting the world we live in go to hell . ''
lzaro again .
stalin was grinning , amused .
this was getting ridiculous .
`` it 's franco salazar , '' alejo said , cutting them off .
one of gabriel 's blond eyebrows rose .
`` the politician ?
what has that fat old dude done ?
everybody seems to like him back in bolivia .
he 's fashionable , drives a swell red sports car , and , they say , even has gold teeth . ''
his chipper grin died away at the look on alejo 's face .
`` tell us about him , '' benjamin pushed away the plate of bread and cheese .
`` guys , alejo knows what he 's talking about . ''
benjamin always respected him ; they had been friends for years , since they were both recruited into the prism together while getting masters degrees in london .
alejo knew his expression had morphed into something pained , but he could n't control it .
he felt the sun baking his neck again , like it had that day , while the breeze whistled through the tall white grass .
the smell of death threatened to engulf him here , fifteen years later .
i do know what i 'm talking about , but i would give anything not to know .
i do n't know if i can say this .
alejo did his best to focus , felt his face darken .
`` i 'll tell you .
and when i 'm done , you 'll know why salazar has to die . ''
his team leaned forward and , stuffing the nausea that came whenever he thought about ruben , alejo told them .
but he did n't tell them about ruben .
even without ruben , it was enough .
when alejo was finished , benjamin 's face burned .
stalin chewed on his lip , and gabriel looked ready to vomit .
`` he 's our next speaker , '' lzaro managed to croak .
`` it 's a good choice .
3 electric blue the city sat in the bowl of the andes , climbing up the foothills to the lavender peaks beyond .
cochabamba was sunny and bustling , infused with a rainbow of flowers and the smell of smog .
this city was her home for six years , and wara cadogan loved it .
back in downtown cochabamba a week after the trip to the mountains , wara entered caf amara wearing a green hippy dress over jeans and beat-up leather sandals .
the air was infused with coffee and cinnamon and vanilla icing and noah was already up front , tuning his honey-colored taylor guitar .
every friday he and a group of friends did live music at the downtown coffee shop his church owned .
noah threw wara a wave and she plopped down into a chair , ready to drink lots of coffee and rest after long day at the aids center with nazaret and her mom , noly .
a swish of fabric drew her attention to the tiny quechua lady at her side , holding a tray of empanadas .
wara 's mouth started to water at the sight of browned pastries , perfectly crimped edges embracing a center of melted cheese .
`` doa filomena , you know i ca n't resist empanadas , '' she told the older lady in quechua .
`` thank you .
how are you doing these days ? ''
doa filomena had a bent back and wrinkled skin that crinkled like parchment , especially around the eyes .
wara had never seen her without two thin gray braids twisted into a bun at the back of her head , and filomena always wore a thick navy blue cardigan over her lacy white blouse .
she was always thrilled to talk with a foreigner in her native quechua .
`` just fine , i 'm doing fine . ''
filomena patted wara on the shoulder , grasped her forearm delicately , and then patted again in the traditional quechua greeting .
`` i tell you , the lord is healing me of my arthritis .
i just pray , i 'm always praying , and i know that the lord is helping me feel better every day . ''
o-kay .
wonderful .
wara fought not to arch an eyebrow .
the lady 's faith was ?
nice .
but she knew about the gigantic megachurch doa filomena was a part of , and all the speaking in tongues and mad tambourine playing that went on in that place honestly freaked wara out .
but who was she to judge , right ?
`` i 'm glad you 're feeling better .
and thanks for the empanada . ''
the older lady nodded with smiling , crinkly eyes and headed back towards the kitchen .
just as tiago pushed his way through the caf door , sending little chimes dinging .
tiago was a guy of maybe nineteen with a boyish smile and black baggy jeans with chains .
he was skinny as a rail and wara wondered when the kid ever ate .
the reason she knew tiago was because he was usually found smoking with a boyfriend outside the door of the neighboring coffee shop , caf paris , known for catering to homosexuals .
he grinned at her when he saw her , showing off the metal stud in his tongue .
another guy wara had never seen before was trailing tiago into caf amara , and the two of them stopped in front of wara 's table .
`` hey , there , '' tiago drew out the greeting with a sly smile .
noah meandered over to say hi to the guys too , still carrying his taylor guitar .
`` this is my new friend rudolf , from germany , '' tiago grinned .
`` he 's over here studying spanish , and i told him you guys were nice .
how 's it going noah ? ''
tiago shook noah 's hand and wara took in the new guy .
rudolf had a very clean-shaven german jaw and wore a preppy gray sweater and dark jeans .
he also shook noah and wara 's hands with a grin , going on about what a great city cochabamba was .
`` and one of the coolest coffee shops here is where you 're standing right now , my friend , '' tiago jumped in .
`` this girl right here , wara ?
she is always making me up free food from the kitchen .
nachos , little pizzas ?
her quesadillas rock . ''
he punched wara in the shoulder , then turned his attention to noah .
`` so , we 're hanging out next door , but we thought we 'd come over and see if you wanted to have a drink with us .
you 're not singing til later , right ? ''
noah blinked .
`` uh , sure .
we could have a drink .
it 's only 9 now , right ? ''
alarm bells were going on in wara 's heard .
noah 's eyes were friendly and clueless , and he probably would n't be able to tell if someone was flirting with him to save his life .
`` i 'll come with you , '' she offered , trying not to grit her teeth .
`` sure , wara , that 'd be great . ''
noah smiled at her so warmly her knees actually went weak .
but then she caught herself and angrily kicked herself into reality .
noah thought she was a nice girl , just another missionary with a pure heart for serving the lord .
what if he ever found out ?
she could never be with someone like him .
`` yeah , i 'll definitely come with you guys , '' she repeated morosely as she followed them out the door .
`` i could use a good drink . ''
for a moment the relative silence of the darkened street shocked wara as the door to caf amara thudded closed behind them .
she crossed the pavement with the guys , towards the blue-toned beehive that was caf paris next door .
just inside the door , the throbbing techno music reverberated inside her chest and the dim lighting confused her .
noah leaned back and spoke into her ear .
`` we 'll just stay a little while , be friendly , go back .
thanks for coming .
i was feeling a little awkward . ''
`` no problem , '' wara hissed back , rolling her eyes .
some of the guys scooted over to make room for them on the electric blue barstools , and wara noticed that rudolf somehow switched seats with another guy next to him , ending up next to noah .
oh great .
wara had never actually been inside this caf before , and she took in the antique plaster ceiling with low-hanging bulbs covered in blue glass squares , sending an eerie , ghostly light around the long room .
the bar , sporting neon signs for mostly european beers , was by far the busiest area of the caf .
`` oh , '' she twisted around , realizing that the bartender was asking her what she wanted , `` i want a taquia . ''
she plopped down on the empty barstool next to noah , who turned away from rudolf as he heard her order for bolivian beer .
`` i did n't know you drank . ''
`` hardly ever do , '' wara answered coolly , flushing as she heard the solid clink of her glass mug of taquia hit the bar .
she knew this was going to be a bad idea , just knew it .
but she had n't had a beer in five years , and if there ever was a time for it , it might be now .
`` are you gon na have anything ? ''
`` i 'll get it , '' rudolf jumped in , offering to pay for noah 's drink .
`` you like taquia ? ''
wara hoped her grimace was discreet , and she tried to hide it by downing a good half of her beer , quickly followed by the other half .
noah , rudolf , and the other guys were talking away , covering everything from rudolf 's spanish studies here in cochabamba to what kind of music noah liked .
i have got to get noah out of here , wara thought as she ordered a cuba libre .
just got to watch for my chance ?
she already felt the effects of the alcohol as the rum with coke went down , but all in all , she felt pretty good .
if noah was n't in danger of being picked up , this would actually be kind of fun .
another fifteen minutes went by , which wara filled with another cuba libre and a whole lot of moody thoughts .
and then she heard noah 's voice .
`` hey , no .
i 'm not ?
i just came here to hang out . ''
wara realized noah was stammering .
she whirled around to see rudolf leaning way , way too close .
noah 's neck had turned absolutely crimson , and his fingers twitched on the edge of the bar stool .
all right , that 's it !
that 's my friend there !
she shot up from her seat and slid onto noah 's lap , wrapping her fingers around the back of his neck .
wara to the rescue !
`` that 's right , '' she snapped , facing the other guys and then meeting noah 's eyes .
`` i think you 're a little confused about my noah here . ''
she pulled him closer , feeling the hot flush of her friend 's face .
`` he 's with me . ''
noah 's face was just inches from hers .
she kissed him , and maybe it was the shock , but noah did n't pull away .
then she broke away and looked rudolph right in the eye .
`` no boyfriend-stealing tonight .
ok ? ''
silence dropped around the bar like chloroform , and then tiago cleared his throat , cheeks splotched maroon .
`` oh , man .
this is really awkward .
we 're , uh , really sorry .
did n't know you , uh ?
were with her . ''
tiago let his eyes shoot to wara , who slid away from noah 's body onto one of his knees and was eyeing the guys with one eyebrow raised .
`` yeah . ''
rudolf had stood and was apologizing .
`` i just thought , i mean , you knew we were gay and you were so nice to us and no one ever is so ? ''
`` yeah , man , '' tiago rushed on .
`` i did n't know why you were always talking to us and stuff .
everyone else that is n't ... you know ?
always treats us like trash . ''
tiago swore and took a deep breath , smiling nervously .
`` anyway , i 'm sure you wo n't want to hang out with us anymore . ''
noah unexpectedly burst into laugher and ran his fingers through his hair .
`` you know what guys ? ''
he said .
`` it can happen to anyone .
we all make ?
assumptions sometimes .
and i 'll see you around .
just so you know not to try to , you know , hook me up .
someday , if it 's all over ? ''
noah jerked his chin over wara 's way , `` i 'll let you know so you can introduce me to any eligible sisters you may have .
c'mon , i think it 's time for us to be going for today , '' noah announced to wara , a little too loudly .
he threw tiago and company one last red-faced smile and headed for the door .
noah remembered to hold the door open for her , and then they began a brisk walk towards the closest major street .
it was obvious that neither of them felt like going back into caf amara .
the cool night air hit wara full in the face and the fire rose from her belly to scald her cheeks as she realized what she had done .
did i actually just kiss noah ?
she had , and in front of witnesses .
oh god , i ca n't believe this !
noah was quiet for nearly a block , and wara nearly suffocated with shame .
i am the worst missionary in the world !
what if the mission heard about this ?
just one more thing to add to her list of awful indiscretions .
then she heard a soft chuckle .
she jerked her head around to look at him , still not quite meeting his eye .
the cobblestones shimmered a little in front of her , and wara was starting to feel a little queasy .
`` well , wara , that was a little unconventional , '' noah nodded , `` but you really saved me there .
i do n't know what else to say , so i 'll just say , 'thank you . '
''
`` that was really dumb , '' wara mumbled .
`` i should never drink .
i never learn . ''
noah was silent a minute more , and then he put a hand on wara 's shoulder .
`` can we sit down here for a sec ? ''
he asked evenly .
`` sure , fine , '' she answered too hurriedly .
she plopped down on a bench in the plaza they had been passing through , in the shadow of a darkened colonial cathedral that was hidden away in the heart of downtown .
she crossed her arms tightly across her chest and waited to hear whatever noah had to say .
this was n't going to be pretty .
the quiet continued as noah sat down a comfortable distance away on the bench , and stared off towards the stone pillars at the plaza 's center .
finally he spoke .
`` so , that was my first kiss . ''
wara jolted .
she could n't help glancing over at him to see if he was serious .
the way his lashes were lowered , that twist of his lips ?
wara suddenly realized she knew noah too well .
he was serious .
memories flooded her heart , unwelcome , and she swatted them away in anger .
it was n't fair !
ok , yes it was .
it was no one 's fault but her own .
but sitting here watching noah , she could tell that he still cared for her as a friend , even though she 'd totally humiliated herself .
and she felt just destroyed .
even if she really loved him , noah would never , ever , be able to be with someone like her , not with her past and his ?
his first kiss ?
`` look , this was a huge mistake , '' wara groaned out loud .
`` i just felt bad and wanted to help you ?
and i did n't think . ''
oh yeah , and i 'm drunk , she thought angrily .
`` i think i should go home and you should go ?
back to the coffee shop .
and just please , do n't tell anybody . ''
as if he would .
wara felt the slow burn spread across the bridge of her nose .
what a disaster !
`` i wo n't tell anyone , '' noah promised her .
`` and really , while tonight has been a little ?
weird , i think it worked really well to save me from rudolf .
i do n't know what i would have done without you . ''
wara sighed and blew her bangs out of her eye as she stood up , tottering unsteadily .
`` hey , wait a sec . ''
noah frowned at her .
`` i 'm not letting you go home by yourself !
you , my dear , are totally wasted . ''
he stood up and held out his arms to steady her , just as nausea surged and the night began to spin around in circles .
`` i 'll take you home , send the guys a text that they can sing without me .
and do n't worry , '' he said seriously , kindly .
`` i wo n't tell anyone .
4 mocha after deciding how franco salazar would die , alejo 's team took the rest of the day off .
alejo spent most of the time wandering the crooked lanes of the peshawar bazaar , staring at gold jewelry to die for and reams of cloth embroidered with a river of color .
if he were gabriel and in love with a girl with amazing sapphire eyes , would he buy her that one gold necklace with wreaths of fairy-tale leaves and bottomless blue stones ?
alejo blinked at the shop window , realizing he had no idea what he would do .
during high school back in bolivia , the girls were more interested in his whiter , richer friends .
since then he 'd been too busy trying to save the world .
stalin found him sweltering under the sun in front of the jewelry shop , clapped him on the shoulder and steered him towards a coffee shop , one of the few modern one in this city .
`` do n't tell me , i can already see it in your eyes , '' stalin said when they 'd taken a seat on the sleek red benches .
`` you 've been reading that book again .
and that means questions , big life and death questions .
go ahead .
ask them all .
i am an expert on the document in question , after all . ''
alejo glanced behind them , checking that they were still alone here in the corner .
a young couple sat at the opposite extreme of the coffee shop , he wearing jeans and she a short white kameez top , wide-bottom black pants , and a leopard print veil .
they both giggled at each other and sipped something fruity from glasses with paper-maiche umbrellas .
the drinks stalin had ordered for them arrived , something with a ridiculous amount of whipped cream and caramel on top .
`` does this even have coffee ? ''
alejo frowned at the stuff suspiciously .
`` you do n't like caramel mochas ? ''
stalin grinned .
whatever .
could n't be worse than that luke-warm fermented mare 's milk he 'd choked down on assignment in uzbekistan a few years ago .
`` i do n't think i do have more questions , '' alejo narrowed his eyes at stalin .
`` and that 's the scary part .
we both know you love to be right , and i 'm giving this one to you .
your arguments convinced me : the texts are authentic .
he really said it .
and if i believe that , i ca n't be muslim anymore . ''
alejo felt his brow lower saying it out loud .
stalin swore under his breath across the table .
`` you seriously believe it ? ''
a bead of sweat popped out of his forehead and he slurped caramel and cream .
`` this time , i 'm not sure if i should have allowed my extreme intellect to be so convincing . ''
`` i do , '' alejo crossed his legs and leaned back .
`` i ca n't help it , i just do .
i believe jesus is the son of god . ''
`` and that means you ca n't be a muslim anymore , '' stalin conceded glumly .
`` it 's just not possible .
allah has no son .
if gabriel finds out , he 's going to have a cow . ''
yeah , gabriel was really religious , more than anyone else on alejo 's team .
but the one alejo really dreaded telling was ishmael khan .
the khan loved alejo like a son , and in the pashto culture that kind of love should never be broken .
he was going to take it hard that alejo had to leave islam ?
and the prism , besides .
`` but it 's just not right for me to stay where i am , '' alejo told stalin , `` if i 'm not a muslim .
i 'll have to tell them . ''
alejo felt relieved it was all decided .
but stalin 's eyes had gone all buggy behind his tiny round glasses .
he chewed on one chapped lip and stirred the mess of coffee and cream left in his cup with the straw .
`` alejo , i do n't think you can just tell them , '' he said worriedly .
stalin licked a film of whipped cream off his upper lip and sighed .
`` do n't you remember what happened to marco ? ''
marco , until a year ago , was the prism leader for colombia and venezuela .
the poor guy was murdered in a horrible break-in , along with his sister and some young nieces ; the whole thing had been really hard for alejo and his team .
stalin was watching the memory cross alejo 's face and he nodded grimly .
`` it happened right after he retired .
did n't it ?
i mean , alejo , you are the best of us , always busy exercising , studying other languages .
but the lazier of us have time to sit around and listen to rumors .
marco leaves the prism to take up agriculture .
or pottery .
or something , i do n't know .
then weeks later , he 's murdered , along with his entire family .
the scary thing is , the 964 did n't seem the least bit surprised . ''
the 964 was the group of incredibly wealthy people who financed the prism .
and why would n't the 964 be surprised ?
because they were behind the whole thing , that 's why .
frost crept into alejo 's veins as it all came together .
the picture shoved under the door of his house in bolivia , a bunch of little kids arriving home from school in uniforms and overstuffed backpacks .
a house number clearly visible over the door .
stalin had also gotten a really weird picture of his parents wearing matching lime green t-shirts at a rally for world peace .
alejo had been so obsessed with salazar he 'd paid no attention to the prism funders ' reaction to marco 's death .
he 'd felt the surprise at seeing that picture show up but never figured out the hint .
`` they 're telling us they know where our families are , '' he stated the obvious .
alejo 's tone turned bitter .
`` if we leave , people we care about die . ''
four o'clock came early the next morning , when the khan came to pick him up for the trip to the countryside tribal area .
a sleek black hummer glided to a stop in front of the apartment , purring in the early morning chill .
a man in a shalwar kameez that was cotton candy pink held the hummer 's rear door for alejo : mateen , an employee of the khan that a guy would be wise not to mess with , despite the pink clothes .
mateen nodded wordlessly at alejo and deferentially closed the hummer door behind him .
the leather seats were freezing .
alejo crossed his arms across his chest and greeted two of the khan 's burly body guards , wearing the round woolen caps that were traditional pashto garb .
each held a well-cared for automatic weapon very comfortably between their knees .
`` asalaam aleikum , '' they grinned back at him over thick , unkempt beards .
`` ishmael , '' alejo nodded at his boss , who , eerily , was impeccably dressed even at this ungodly hour of the morning .
ishmael khan was a philanthropist , giving away a lot of his wealth to build hospitals and schools here in pakistan as well as in bolivia .
the broken hand of two-year old jamila was what ishmael khan fought for .
this was what alejo 's handler saw every time he heard about another child killed by the americans in afghanistan : the tiny , coffee-colored hand of his niece , protruding from the rubble of her home in the mountains .
she 'd been crushed by a stray american missile back in 2008 , massacred in the same day as her five siblings .
the americans had apologized .
the khan had n't accepted .
now ishmael khan was alejo 's handler in the prism , this muslim organization dedicated to fighting against injustice for allah .
alejo was the prism leader for all of south america , excluding colombia and venezuela , where marco 's replacement now worked .
the chill from his conversation with stalin yesterday still sat in alejo 's bones .
the khan was a strict muslim , but would he really react so strongly to alejo 's moving on as stalin had implied ?
maybe only the 964 really cared , because they were the ones who invested all the money in training alejo .
or maybe stalin and alejo were just painting themselves scary pictures from nothing , like campfire ghost stories under the moon .
gabriel cleared his throat from the third row of seats behind alejo .
the rest of alejo 's team had stayed behind in peshawar .
`` i thought we might have to drag your butt out of bed , '' he chuckled .
`` for the first time ever .
you were looking pretty down yesterday . ''
alejo was irritated .
they did n't know why he personally hated salazar so much .
to them he was just another scumbag who was about to be offed .
and , except for stalin , they absolutely did n't know a thing about the decision alejo was trying to make .
the roads outside of peshawar were cut into dry , dusty mountain faces , and incredibly sheer drop-offs framed their narrow edges .
eventually the hummer left the peaks and jolted across a stony field where the rutted tracks were barely visible in the weak light of dawn .
everywhere , mud-brick houses sprung up out of the rocky dust ; most were shattered from missiles , empty shells of the family life that must once have filled them .
small children sometimes lined the road , staring with huge , kohl-lined eyes as the impressive hummer roared past , clouding their ragged bodies in billows of thick dust .
sometime around noon , the armored hummer arrived at a run-down village , consisting of a cluster of houses around a stone well .
mangy , skeletal donkeys wandered about , tethered to fraying ropes .
scrawny chickens had free range of the dusty central courtyard .
a baby cried franticly from inside one of the single-room homes .
a piece of burlap hung over the small window stirred , a dark form peered out , and the baby was immediately hushed .
somewhere in the near distance , the dull echo of a missile launcher pounded against the surrounding mountains .
alejo started , and realized they were near the current battle zone .
with a cool hiss , the metallic doors of the hummer unlocked and opened .
mateen took a long drink from a two-liter bottle of luke-warm coca-cola .
the pashtun guards leapt out of the car , weapons gripped tightly in their rough hands .
`` settle down , settle down , '' the khan barked in pashto , appearing amused .
`` there 's nothing to be afraid of right here , in this village .
it 's still ours .
our commander is in constant contact with me , by sat phone . ''
ishmael patted the pocket of his gray wool jacket from a posh london shop .
`` you all stay here and guard the car , '' ishmael instructed his guards and driver .
`` keeping a sharp eye out towards us , of course , as a precaution . ''
the khan cleared his throat , spit a wad of hashish on the ground and turned towards alejo , all smiles .
`` and as for you , your hour has come .
did i not tell you i had a surprise for you ?
forgot to mention it , eh ?
well , i have a little something i want to show you , and i think you will be very surprised .
pleasantly . ''
alejo hid his displeasure behind a passive mask .
yeah , he was surprised .
what could be here , so near the battle zone , that the khan wanted him to see ?
there was nothing here but run-down huts .
and people who needed help .
`` come on , alejo , '' the khan was saying , heading towards a larger , low-slung mud building that was on the close side of the courtyard .
alejo 's leather sandals sucked at the mud as he followed ishmael .
a thin plume of smoke snaked from the chimney of the building into the slate gray of the sky .
alejo halted impatiently outside the splintered wooden door as the khan called into the building in pashto , a curt answer came back to him , and the khan motioned happily for alejo to open the door .
features impassive , alejo pushed his way cautiously into the darkened building and found , more or less , what he had expected : a room tightly packed with mud-caked , exhausted mujahedeen , taking an early-morning snooze by the fire before heading out to fight the enemy combatants .
most wore grimy shalwar kameezs and the traditional pashtun hats , with a ring around the bottom , bulging like a wool muffin on the top .
the men looked thin and under-fed and much too young to be here .
many had body parts wrapped up in dirt-encrusted , ratty bandages mottled with dried blood .
around one hundred pairs of brown , battle-weary eyes stared back at alejo as his vision adjusted to the dim lighting .
he felt the khan push past him , forcing him further inside the room .
`` well , come see your surprise ! ''
alejo was confused , but did n't let it show , only cocking an eyebrow at ishmael .
he was n't interested in radical fighters and all their petty battles over slight differences in religion or generational blood feuds .
what was he doing here ?
`` asalaam alaikum ! ''
ishmael greeted the men enthusiastically , and they , obviously knowing who he was , made an effort to sit up straighter with respect and returned the pashto greeting .
`` this is the man i told you about , the man i told your commander i would bring to you . ''
the khan motioned widely towards alejo , as pleased as a kindergartner presenting his newest coloring page to his favorite teacher .
`` please greet our visitor . ''
alejo was perplexed to see grins spreading across the chapped faces of many of the men in the room .
an unexplained feeling of dread crept across his chest as he watched them .
and then the men opened their mouths and spoke .
5 aquamarine pakistan if gabriel shara were any happier , he might just die .
it had happened .
his dream had finally come true !
he .
was .
going to marry .
ambrin !
!
!
gabriel had never thought it would all happen so soon .
but while alejo was chatting with the mujahedeen warriors in that town with the mangy donkey , ishmael khan had pulled gabriel aside and said the best words of the century : `` gabriel my son , i 've heard you have noticed my niece . ''
it was all going to be arranged , next year when ambrin finished nursing school .
and though marrying ambrin was about the most awesome news gabriel could imagine , the khan had n't been finished .
there was a client , a super-important client , hiring for a super-important mission .
and the khan wanted gabriel to take the job !
`` you 're the one , gabriel shara , '' ishmael had smiled warmly outside under the blazing pakistani sun .
`` think about it and let me know . ''
but gabriel did n't need to think about it .
he 'd pretend to for a few days , just to negotiate the price a little .
but why should he even do that ?
this mission was a dream come true , a gigantic victory in the cause of justice .
for goodness sakes , he should just do it for free !
gabriel 's brain was doing cartwheels by the time they stopped for a bite to eat in a one-horse town along the road back to peshawar .
absolutely everyone along the village 's single road stopped to gawk as mateen pulled the black hummer over next to a ditch of raw sewage , then ducked after the khan into the village 's only eating establishment .
the bodyguards were talking loudly about some tv show , but alejo was lost in a world of his own , ever since they had left the tribal area .
he got like that sometimes .
gabriel had found if you just left him alone , he would come out of the funk before you knew it .
he tried to catch alejo 's eye with a smile as they entered the restaurant .
grimy aquamarine walls dominated the small eating place with their shocking color , and cheap plastic mats spread across the floor .
several groups of men were already eating their lunch , one leg folded up to support their right arm , the other bent cross-legged on the woven mat .
with their right hand , the pashtun men scooped up cooked spinach with torn pieces of oven-roasted naan bread .
along one wall lay a scattered pile of black plastic sandals in varying states of muddiness .
several of the men 's blackened , bare feet twitched only a few inches away from the food .
bon apetit .
before digging in , gabriel slipped his cell phone out of one pocket to check the time .
yep .
time for prayers .
around twenty other men in the room began to unroll tattered prayer mats from a special corner of the restaurant , working as one man to spread them out in rows in the middle of the uneven concrete floor , facing mecca .
the town 's mosque must have been very near by , judging by the volume of the haunting call to prayer that suddenly cut through the air over a loudspeaker .
the customers who were already here for lunch would simply pray together here .
a small spigot of water just outside the door in a concrete courtyard provided a place for the men to perform wudu , ritual washing for prayers .
gabriel waited his turn at the trickle of water and began to focus his mind on allah as he washed all the parts required by the prophet .
alejo took gabriel 's place at the faucet and began washing , quiet and morose .
gabriel 's bare , wet feet made a sucking sound as he padded back inside across the now muddy concrete , his large , moist footprints mingling with the others to create a mosaic of darkened patches on the restaurant floor .
frigid rivulets of water formed crystal drops like sweat down gabriel 's face , from his wet , spiky hair to his chin .
kneeling down next to alejo , gabriel prostrated himself on his mat and began to pray to the one who , alone , could reward him with eternal life .
he had to wait another week , but gabriel finally got some time off .
the rest of his team had flown back to bolivia the day after that legendary trip to the tribal area , the one where gabriel 's dreams of ambrin began to come true .
since then , gabriel had been back , training a new group of recruits in the tribal area .
he knew how to make stuff : molotov cocktails , pretty good bombs , electronic bugs for picking up conversations .
and he was a really good sniper .
he 'd had to learn this stuff when hezbollah trained him in iran , along with alejo , benjamin , stalin , and a bunch of other guys .
he 'd gotten a scholarship in bolivia to go to university in iran , and been recruited into the prism there .
the training had been excellent .
and now gabriel was just passing it all on .
hard work , but today i get a reminder that in the end it all pays off .
literally .
sitting in the middle of one of the khan 's gilded apartments , gabriel flushed , glancing at the fat pile of cash gripped tightly in his hand .
his salary for the next few months .
gabriel , it 's not about the money !
he scolded himself .
it was all about doing what allah wanted .
a knock thudded against the apartment door , and gabriel opened to find ishmael 's employee mateen .
the huge pashtun guard was clad in a cotton candy pink shalwar kameez , but the muscles bulging under mateen 's shirt convinced gabriel that the color somehow did n't make the man look any less respectable .
`` mr. khan sent me to tell you i will pick you up at eight for a little good-bye dinner , '' mateen announced .
a smile twitched above mateen 's bushy black beard and he bowed deferentially , then glided back towards the silver bmw idling outside the door .
you mean at ten , gabriel raised an eyebrow at the departing guard .
people accused bolivians of always being tardy to everything , but really , they had no idea .
pakistanis had them beat .
seeing the beard reminded gabriel of his own pathetic attempt to grow a beard in order to be a good muslim .
the few inches of reddish , peachy fuzz dusting his chin at least showed that he had made the effort to be pious .
i will never be able to wear a pink shalwar kameez like mateen , gabriel thought .
the door to the apartment pounded shut , and he sighed as he was left alone .
a shiny , distorted image of himself glimmered back at him from a mirror in the golden wardrobe on the opposite wall , and gabriel scowled at his measly beard pack .
i 've got to pack .
them maybe i can settle down and watch a sermon from one of the mullahs on tv .
his trusty hiker backpack was propped up next to the bed , and gabriel opened the huge gold wardrobe and pulled out a stack of folded shalwar kameezs , sweaters and jeans .
now , on to his babies .
first , he carefully lifted his favorite quran , inside its black leather quran case , from its position of respect on the highest table in the room and gently placed it inside the backpack .
then came the hard shelled black case from under the bed .
gabriel fondly clicked the case open , revealing the smooth , honey wood of his violin .
this guy had been with him since his parents had given it to him for his sixteenth birthday , and the violin always came with gabriel to anywhere he went that was important .
he carefully placed the small case inside his backpack .
there .
now that the violin is here , wherever we go i 'll be home .
that left the money .
he understood the reasons , but sometimes really wished his boss did n't have to pay him in cash .
debit cards existed for a reason , did n't they ?
gabriel decided to deposit all this cash in the bank , one of the many banks close to the apartment where he had an account .
he pulled a fraying gray sweater over his long shalwar kameez and headed to the bank .
thirty minutes later , having disposed of the cash , gabriel strolled lazily down one of peshawar 's main thoroughfares under a thick haze of ochre smog and pollution .
bordering the sidewalk , heavy buses painted like kaleidoscopes rumbled by next to wooden donkey carts .
a chorus of a thousand horns blared .
two female shapes , heavily-shrouded in black veils that fell to the ground , glided in front of gabriel and began to weave their way across the street .
though modestly covered , the girls ' huge dark eyes were exposed and gabriel could tell they must be young , maybe about his age .
then he realized what he was thinking , and his face began a slow burn .
he was ashamed for even noticing them .
oh allah , help me !
here i 've been offered this great mission , and i 'm so unworthy .
you 've got to make me pure and clean .
please !
still praying , he ducked past a street vendor and a sizzling vat of curry into a winding alleyway , already shadowy in the approaching night .
a crunching sensation of angst in his belly came at the same moment as gabriel 's eyes told him he had erred and let his mind wander away from his surroundings .
he barely registered the shadowy shapes of three men who had suddenly surged from behind into his peripheral vision , then came the flash of adrenaline .
the force of their bodies propelled gabriel face first against the coarse concrete wall .
feeling true panic , gabriel swore in spanish .
two of the men gripped his arms tightly behind his back , while the third tore off gabriel 's cap , threw it on the ground , and grabbed his hair so that he could not turn his face toward either side .
`` what are you doing ? ''
gabriel gasped in pashto .
maybe they had mistaken him for someone else .
with his light skin , he did look a lot like an afghani .
`` shut up !
if you look at us , you 'll die ! ''
yelled one of the men in a voice that sounded like a traffic accident .
they yanked gabriel 's head back by the hair , exposing his neck and scraping his nose and chin painfully across the pock-marked wall .
and then he felt the prick of a very wicked knife pressed against his throat .
`` i-i 'm not looking ! ''
gabriel stammered , hating himself for not being able to control the tremor .
if i were alejo i would fight these guys ?
something hot and tangy oozed off gabriel 's bloodied lip onto his tongue .
the taste of his own blood made him want to gag .
`` give us all the money you got from the bank . ''
the demand came from one of the men , shadowy in the darkness of the back alley-way .
`` or we 'll cut your throat , dirty afghan . ''
gabriel swallowed hard and took a steadying breath .
`` of course .
i have the money right here in my pocket .
the left one .
all my money is there , in my wallet . ''
a hand thrust violently into the left pocket of gabriel 's long kameez , causing him to totter and the knife at his neck to bite into his flesh .
gabriel gasped and told the men , `` but i did n't get any money at the bank .
i went there to deposit . ''
`` you filthy liar ! ''
one of them yelled , twisting gabriel 's arm so hard behind his back that his eyes watered from the pain .
`` we saw you go into the bank .
if you 're hiding the money , we 'll slaughter you like a pig . ''
they had followed him from the bank !
how had he not noticed ?
you 've been a fool , gabriel .
a fool .
how could you get so lost in your thoughts ?
`` but ?
look in my wallet .
you 'll see . ''
gabriel swallowed hard , felt his adam 's apple rub raw across the concrete wall .
`` there 's the deposit receipt there .
you can see that i left a deposit there in the bank .
all the money i have now is there in my wallet . ''
sweat ran down gabriel 's face , along with the blood .
he knew that there were only around two hundred rupees in his wallet , a paltry sum , enough to buy some potato chips and a coke .
thank god he had nothing in his wallet to identify him as a westerner , as usual .
there was only his afghan identity card , thanks to the khans .
a snarl and several pashto curses told gabriel that , indeed , the thieves were not pleased with the pittance in his wallet or the rumpled slip that told them twenty thousand euros had been deposited before their victim left the bank and they began to follow him .
the man holding the blade at gabriel 's throat swore violently in his ear .
`` hold him ! ''
rough hands dug into his upper arms .
someone else pulled on his hair , forcing gabriel 's face towards the sky .
the knife slashed his throat like the sting of a thousand wasps and his eyes rolled back into his head .
everything hazed over midnight , and the world was black before gabriel shara even crumpled at the thieves ' feet next to the graffiti-covered wall .
it was terribly strange to be aware that the world was passing by around you , but yet to feel yourself immobile as a stone , limbs heavy as petrified wood .
drifting in and out of awareness , gabriel finally reached a point of realizing that he could move his lips and try to speak , and what he tried to say was , `` help . ''
he was in a dirty room filled with ivs , a few cots , and a chess board on a little table , pieces paused mid-game .
the ivs mean doctors , a hospital .
what 's with the chess game ?
i 'm not dead .
gabriel felt his heart beat slow and cold .
this could n't possibly be some kind of freaky afterlife filled with rusting metal cots and eternal games of chess ?
am i dead ?
gabriel attempted to roll over to one side , morbid curiosity winning out over sluggishness .
something stabbed through his neck and chest with the movement , and he yelled , suddenly remembering the alley and the thieves and the knife slitting his throat .
and then he saw alejo , materializing in this strange room , followed by a short little doctor in a dirty lab coat .
`` take it easy , gabo , '' alejo said hoarsely .
`` do n't move .
you 're safe now . ''
gabriel forced himself to relax back into the pillow , weak with relief at the sight of his friend .
was alejo looking about to cry ?
over him ?
`` they had to sew you up pretty quickly , '' alejo said , then cleared his throat .
`` someone found you .
in the alley .
they did n't cut your windpipe .
do you remember what happened ? ''
if he held really still , the pain of talking was manageable .
`` yes .
they wanted ?
money . ''
the doctor had moved to the side of the bed and was checking stitches on gabriel 's neck .
stitches he really did n't even want to imagine .
`` you must realize , my friend , how lucky you are , '' the short doctor clucked at gabriel .
`` it is truly a miracle you are still here .
and you have such a good friend , this man who flew here all the way from the americas when he heard what happened . ''
alejo was crying .
he was trying to pretend it was just a piece of dust he had to scrub from one eye , but the ruse was n't working very well .
gabriel felt his face spread into a grin .
a very sad-looking , lopsided grin , but a happy one nonetheless .
`` allah has chosen you , my friend , '' the doctor patted gabriel on the shoulder .
`` you must never forget it .
your life belongs to him now . ''
that was supposed to be comforting , was n't it ?
but gabriel felt the smile drain from his lips .
what if he messed up ?
allah had saved him by a miracle .
and gabriel knew how it worked .
now he had to pay allah back .
6 emerald coroico , bolivia wara shifted positions against the worn gray upholstery of the minibus , managing to win an extra half-inch or so for her left leg .
she hooked one dusty converse tennis shoe through the straps of her purple backpack , a habit she had developed to be able to drift off to sleep while traveling without the possibility of someone sneaking off with her bag .
nazaret was fast asleep next to her , blond curls plastered to wara 's shoulder .
on wara 's other side , through the window , soaring peaks of emerald contrasted with sheer drop-offs , mere inches from the edge of the dirt-caked road .
nazaret and wara were on their way to coroico , sleepy tropical tourist town in the mountains , for a four-day weekend vacation .
this was the first time pastor martir had let his daughter go away for so long , even though nazaret was the same age as wara , twenty-seven .
latino fathers tended to be extra-protective of their daughters , more so than american dads .
the bennesons from wara 's mission had let her take some time off from helping at the aids center , and her literacy classes for quechua women were only twice a week anyway .
as the distance between wara and cochabamba grew , she allowed herself to think of that disastrous night she 'd been trying to forget for the past month : the electric blue glow of caf paris , several drinks too many , kissing noah next to the bar .
even now , wara felt her cheeks flame at the memory of that really ill-advised kiss .
in the plaza outside the caf that night , while still feeling the effects of the alcohol , wara had felt crushed with the realization that noah would never be able to love her .
a dilemma that never would have bothered her before .
but since sobering up , wara found that her feelings of dismay over the situation with noah had n't changed .
of course , she felt ridiculous for having embarrassed herself in front of him .
but it was more than that .
that night she had seen how noah still looked at her with kindness after that stupid moment in the bar .
she knew , now , that she really did love him .
at least it felt that way .
wara closed her eyes against the smooth glass , heart sinking all the way down to her toes .
but he could never love me .
a jolt from underneath the minibus began at the flimsy metal seat and rode up wara 's spine , rattling her cheek against the glass .
she opened her eyes and felt the bus brake solidly , pebbles exploding along the pavement .
the rear end of the vehicle fishtailed towards the sheer cliff at the edge of the road .
soft shrieks and muted curses rose from the other bus passengers , and wara 's heart flew to her throat as nazaret jerked wide awake .
a skidding bus anywhere near the edge of this mountain road was ample cause for alarm .
the road that led down from la paz to coroico was no ordinary road ; it was booked in most tour guides as the road of death , the most dangerous road in the world .
cut at unbelievable angles into the emerald heart of the andes , the road boasted drop-offs of 1800 feet at some points .
nazaret gasped loudly at wara 's side , clutching her little rolling suitcase covered in pink poodles and eiffel towers .
then the minibus drew to a halt , engulfed in a fine mist of pewter-colored dirt .
they were still on the road , but wara 's knees were shaking .
five seconds later , the dust glided away , leaving the bus passengers a view of metal debris and a gutted , blown-out tire splayed over the pavement .
`` a bus went over the mountain ! ''
a man called from a few rows back .
wara took a deep breath and knit her shaking fingers together in her lap .
a plump quechua woman on the other side of nazaret answered loudly , `` it 's the accident from two days ago .
the one from the news . ''
old accident or not , the bus passengers were curious .
the door of the minivan slid open with a hollow whine and everyone spilled out , cautiously tiptoeing over to the cliff .
a humid breeze whipped at their hair from across the ravine and the sunshine seared their shoulders .
`` the road of death , living up to its name , '' a woman muttered .
a chorus of gasps rose upon viewing what was once a large , sleek tour bus , belly up in a tangle of trees a thousand feet below .
horrified , wara could make out the tiny stick forms of what appeared to be bodies sprawled on the way down to the crash .
`` good heavens , '' an elderly man stammered .
`` they 're just going to leave them here ? ''
`` the rescue teams have been working since the accident , '' replied a skinny kid in a hoodie .
`` they find the survivors first , then bring up the bodies .
they 'll probably be back tomorrow .
it 's getting late . ''
as wara stared wide-eyed down the precipice , the magnitude of rappelling down that sheer cliff to attempt a rescue effort hit her .
her head spun and she backed away , hurrying to the minibus where the driver was ordering them all to return .
nazaret never made it back to sleep during the remaining hour ride to coroico , and wara did her best to focus on the primitive beauty of the living mountains and not the valley below .
the first tinges of dusk were just beginning to paint the expanse over the mountains when coroico came into view , all coral-tiled roofs jutting out over an emerald mass of vegetation , like a man riding a foaming wave into the thin air over a precipice that dropped into the valley below .
the bus followed winding roads and soon arrived at coroico 's main plaza , a square affair surrounded by touristy restaurants and tour guide offices .
the rubber wheels of nazaret 's suitcase bounced over cobblestones as she and wara walked towards their hotel .
the hotel bella vista was four blocks from the plaza , and wara sagged with relief as she entered its cream-colored hall and spotless wood parquet floor .
a beautiful brick fountain gurgled in the atrium , splashing water across smooth pebbles .
`` it 's good to be back , '' she muttered , heading towards the room she always reserved at the back of the hotel .
it was really good to be anywhere , after seeing the fate of that bus down in the valley .
inside the room she and nazaret had reserved , a giant plate-glass window was framed by crimson and gold curtains .
though the sun had sunk a little more behind the mountains , the amazing spread of the valley below was still visible in muted tones , proving why this hotel was called the beautiful view .
beyond the crimson curtains , tangled tropical life stretched out far below them as far as the eye could see , blanketing the soaring mountains in emerald array .
a winding river cut through the middle of the valley , and wet salmon-colored clouds clung to the tops of the mountains that were still lower than the town of coroico .
wara and nazaret fell asleep right after dinner from a tiny pizza restaurant , and did n't move again til morning .
she and nazaret spent the next day exploring the tiny tourist town : horseback riding over the emerald mountains , lunch at the little german caf , then a walk over towards casa bonita for homemade organic ice cream .
crashing for a while in coroico 's main plaza under the stars seemed to be the perfect ending .
wara and nazaret collapsed on a bench and stretched their legs out next to a tinkling stone fountain .
groups of fair-skinned tourists , wearing khaki shorts with hiking sandals and socks , sat around the plaza laughing too loudly and munching pringles and snickers bars that the local stores kept on hand for the healthy flow of foreigners brought to their town by the adventure tourism industry .
a young bolivian couple strolled by with their son and a pair of mickey mouse balloons , munching hamburgers wrapped in plastic sacks .
and near the tinkling fountain , a group of women in dark islamic robes stood quietly , passing out pieces of paper to anyone interested .
`` looks like islam is growing here , too . ''
nazaret had also noticed the muslim girls , trying to share their faith here in coroico with people passing by .
`` not just in the big cities .
next year they finish that huge mosque in cochabamba , you know . ''
wara did know that ; during the last decade , bolivia and iran had become close friends .
with more muslims coming to bolivia for business or study , some bolivians were converting to islam .
and the iranians had built many hospitals and schools in needy parts of the country .
there was probably one here outside of coroico .
`` boo ! ''
wara nearly jumped out of her skin as two rough hands covered her eyes , blinding her .
she panicked and tried to lean forward but could n't break away .
she felt a body come over the back of her bench into the space between her and nazaret as the hands disappeared .
annoyed , wara realized that the bony shoulder pressing into hers belonged to tobin , the wiry , blond australian friend of noah 's .
`` tobin ! ''
wara scolded .
`` what ?
?
you really freaked me out ! ''
she paused , frowning , wondering what tobin was doing here .
wara leaned around tobin and saw that eduardo sejas , the good-looking bolivian who sang with noah at the cafe , was sitting on the edge of the bench next to nazaret , wearing cargo pants , a dirty t-shirt , and a heavy-duty backpack .
nazaret 's lips were turned up into a smile , and wara followed her gaze to see tobias , the other australian , and noah .
standing in front of her bench , smiling down at her .
wara gulped .
and paled .
what were they doing here ?
`` aww , we 're sorry we scared you guys ! ''
a quick glance over at eduardo showed white teeth flashing against his tan jaw .
`` we did n't know it would freak you out . ''
he paused and waved his hand as if to erase the past .
`` so , hello !
nice to see you ! ''
tobin kissed a still-frozen wara on the cheek , and the other guys leaned in to give greetings .
noah was wearing khaki shorts with leather hiking sandals , and his tanned legs were covered in powdery dirt .
a t-shirt with cut-off sleeves left the tattoo of blue celtic symbols around his upper arm clearly visible .
wara dared to meet his eyes and saw no sign that he was thinking of the last time they 'd hung out , in caf paris .
noah leaned forward to give her a bolivian cheek-smooch , and wara felt her face go hot .
`` what are you guys doing here ? ''
she asked much too sharply .
how could we have ended up coming to the same place for weekends away ?
i never heard noah or any of the guys talking about this !
well , she had also been avoiding him .
`` well , '' tobin said cheerfully in his lovely accent , `` we 've been planning this for quite a while , right guys ?
today and tomorrow we are doing 'adventure tourism ' here around coroico , and then monday we are heading out for the hike to the cotapata nature reserve .
what is it , eduardo , a 24-hour hike ? ''
eduardo confirmed , and noah sat down on the concrete edge of the fountain , stretching out his legs .