next to him , wara sunk onto one of the room 's many beds .
the room was large and lined with about eight single beds , all with pink pinstriped sheets .
alejo paced to each of the windows , making sure they were secured and not easy to open .
`` anyone following you on your way here ? ''
he asked them .
`` any strange cars outside your house ? ''
everyone shook their heads no , staring at him with wide hazel eyes that mirrored his own .
`` everyone left behind their cell phones ? ''
alejo was relieved that they all nodded .
he had a couple of implanted tracking devices , in case anyone needed to track him when he was on assignment .
they would n't be a problem now , though , because the things had to be activated at close range by whoever was going to track him .
the teenager who must be his little brother nathaniel watched him with something like awe , never leaving his mother 's side .
when alejo left cochabamba to live with his uncle , nathaniel had been two and toddling around the patio in soiled pampers .
nareth , nadia , nestor , and naveli huddled on one of the beds , not recognizing him even a bit .
they had all been little babies when he stopped by his parents ' house for the only time after running away .
he only went home to get some of his clothes and cds .
just a quick stop before he headed back to santa cruz and his uncle on the bus .
no time to spend with a preachy old preacher and a mother who constantly prodded about how he was doing and a house-full of raucous little martirs who kept multiplying like rabbits .
naveli had been born several years after he had last seen his family .
now he picked her out right away , a little seven-year old hanging on one of pastor martir 's legs , whimpering .
alejo sank down onto one of the unmade beds and planted his feet firmly on the floor , determined not to be sick .
`` there are definitely some things you need to know , '' he swallowed hard , `` now that i 've gotten you in this mess , but first ? ''
he stood up stiffly from the bed and fought the urge to pace .
`` we need to get wara to a doctor , '' pastor martir interrupted with concern , staring at wara and surely thinking about the fact that she had been in a near-fatal bus accident .
alejo held up one hand .
`` i know that she 's in some pain , but she 'll be fine .
i asked the guy downstairs to have a taxi sent over with some anti-inflammatories from the pharmacy .
the nose is probably broken , but i wo n't be able to tell for forty-eight hours if it needs to be set .
the swelling has to go down first . ''
noly and nazaret audibly gasped as they swung around toward wara , noticing for the first time her puffy , bruised face .
crusty patches of blood had dried around her violet and yellow nose .
alejo felt low as a dog , knowing everyone was looking at wara and assuming this had happened to her in the bus accident .
the accident that he had caused .
before punching a girl in the face and knocking her to the ground , then dragging her away with a knife to the throat .
`` oh dear lord !
the accident ! ''
noly gasped , catching her hand over her mouth .
`` i still ca n't believe ?
we heard on the news that everyone was dead , even though sar search and rescue has just begun to bring up the bodies .
and then you chatted with nazaret ? ''
noly 's pale face flashed back towards alejo .
`` and she said you were with alejandro .
wara ? ''
nazaret 's mother hesitated , then tentatively asked , `` noah was with you .
do you know ?
? ''
`` i do n't know ?
what happened to noah , '' wara said , expression clearly saying she wished alejo would slither away like the snake that he was .
`` i was thrown out of the bus .
he was sitting right by me , but i could n't find him . ''
her lip shook , and she visibly forced herself not to cry .
`` these guys , '' she jerked her chin over alejo 's way in the bolivian style of pointing , `` say that no one else but me survived .
i passed out , and then was picked up , by the killers . ''
nazaret 's blond ringlets appeared next to her mother , eyes full of tears .
alejo remembered her , the sister closest to him in age .
and suddenly he knew he 'd missed her .
`` wara ? ''
she said , `` they say on the news it will take at least another day to continue the search for survivors and ?
bring up the rest of the bodies . ''
her voice choked and she grabbed onto her mother for support .
`` the bus fell more than a thousand feet down the ravine , and then it-it exploded .
i just ca n't believe you 're alive ! ''
nazaret was sobbing now , and alejo felt as if he were in another world , a twilight zone that could not be reality .
never in his worst nightmares had he imagined being reunited with his family like this .
`` wara , '' noly martir 's tear-stained voice continued , `` a man from noah 's mission told me today that noah 's parents will be in la paz by tomorrow night .
your parents were still waiting to see what happens .
the sar search and rescue have n't ?
found any one who survived the crash .
everyone from the bus is presumed dead . ''
alejo felt his fists clench hard at his sides , the words hitting him like a load of bricks .
franco salazar must be dead .
and wara and noah paid the price for the man 's sins .
everyone was crying , well at least it seemed like it .
his mother , his sister nazaret , several of the little kids whose faces he did n't even recognize .
alejo 's chest began to constrict , and he tried in vain to be rational .
he had thought this out .
salazar needed to die , whatever the cost .
of course it was possible there could be other casualties .
i am a murderer .
`` alejo . ''
the broken voice of his father sliced through his heart .
alejo turned towards him as if in daze .
pablo martir 's eyes were red-rimmed as alejo managed to meet them , steeling himself to do the right thing and give whatever it took of himself to make this right , as much as possible .
i , alejandro benjamin martir , am a murderer , and it 's time to pay .
`` son , '' pastor martir began , `` wara said that she was found by the killers . ''
alejo 's father placed one protective hand on his wife 's shoulder , moving in front of her and nathaniel as he spoke .
`` and that she was with you . ''
the unspoken question hung in the air , surrounded by children 's shuddering sobs .
as if in slow motion , one by one , the other members of the martir family moved up next to their father , warily , staring at him with those hazel eyes .
the little one , naveli , sniffed loudly and cried , `` noah ! ''
`` i 'll tell you everything , '' alejo promised hoarsely .
`` but not in front of the children .
18 dark alejo led his parents up to the roof , followed by nazareth and nathaniel .
his heart ached as he left wara with the youngest children in the room and pushed open a door that led to the flat concrete roof of the hostal salta .
a high brick wall held together with globs of roughly-formed gray mortar provided privacy .
a few threadbare , freshly-washed sheets flapped in the breeze in one corner of the roof , drying in the fading sunshine .
alejo trudged to the center of the roof , where rusty metal chairs circled a wobbly table .
he absently stared at the surrounding buildings , praying-yes , praying-that there would n't be any problems with security at their present location for at least the next few hours , until he could explain to his parents how it came to be that he had set assassins on the trail of his baby sisters .
a squeaking of metal told him that his family had taken seats in the awkward silence , unsure of what to do .
my parents may have done many things that were wrong , but they and the kids did n't deserve this .
the silence suffocated , and alejo needed to escape it .
`` i work with a group that partners with hezbollah , '' he finally said , avoiding nazaret 's teary gaze .
with a start , he wondered if he should use the past tense .
everything is happening so fast ?
`` until this afternoon . ''
for the first time in a very long while , alejo found himself struggling for words .
how could he explain who he was , when his family had not known him for fourteen years ?
and who are you now ?
alejo thought .
do you even know ?
nazaret was staring at him , white face stricken with shock .
`` you 're a muslim ?
hezbollah ?
they 're terrorists ! ''
`` no , hezbollah has renounced terrorism , '' alejo insisted .
`` you 're thinking of hamas .
or al-qaeda . ''
alejo paused , trying to come up with words .
`` i was a muslim .
i ?
am not anymore . ''
he could n't even bring himself to mention the name of jesus in this discussion as his reason for leaving islam .
the weight of what he had done felt as if it could never be erased .
alejo cleared his face of emotion and tried to state the facts clearly .
`` i was the leader of a team in an organization that kills evil men .
my team put explosives on the bus that left coroico on sunday night .
it was supposed to contain only the targets , but noah and wara apparently got on the bus at the last minute .
the men from my team brought wara to me , after they found her by the road , alive .
they would have killed her too , and i left with her to avoid that .
so i suppose my membership in the organization has been canceled . ''
alejo 's mouth flattened into a wry , grim line .
`` wara 's bus ! ''
pablo martir 's face flooded red .
his knuckles tightened violently around the edge of his chair .
`` you ?
you did that ? ''
nazaret squeaked .
everyone else seemed too horrified to even speak .
`` not only that , '' alejo 's voice was strained , `` but when i left the organization , i put your lives in danger .
they do n't like traitors and as soon as they found out i left with wara , i 'm sure they started to look for you .
i was a leader , and the punishment for leaving is death for my family . ''
now alejo leaned back into his chair , hating the looks on their faces , hating that he was the one who had caused all this .
wara said they have prayed for me for years , that i would be safe and following jesus , he remembered bitterly .
and now i show up , a muslim , a criminal , who has ruined their lives .
`` oh god , '' noly martir whispered , covering her mouth with her hand .
for a second no one could speak .
then alejo 's mother stood up unevenly from the iron chair , a look of intense sadness quivering on her face .
`` alejo , those are your little brothers and sisters below us in that room .
are they safe sleeping here , with you ?
what is going to happen to them ?
oh god , '' she repeated , her voice breaking .
`` you never even knew them , and already you have made their lives forfeit . ''
`` noah ! ''
nazaret cried , breaking into sobs as well , dropping down onto her knees on the concrete floor .
`` and wara ?
why ?
what have you done to them ?
alejo , do n't you know how much i loved you ?
how much i missed you ? ''
`` wara told me , '' alejo muttered , struggling to meet his sister 's weepy eyes .
he turned towards his mother and held out a hand towards her , then dropped it to his side .
`` i will do all that i can to keep them safe while they 're sleeping , '' he promised gravely .
alejo felt that until now his father had been ominously silent .
dropping down on a stack of concrete blocks facing his family , alejo watched him out of the corner of his eye , struggling against his will with all the ancient bitterness that welled up in the presence of pablo martir .
was the pastor shocked that his son had been living as a muslim ?
well , i was happy as a muslim , dad .
did you really , honestly expect me to want to be a christian ?
did you ever realize what you had done , when you heard about ruben ?
apparently , if ruben had affected his family at all , they had recovered just fine .
word was that pablo martir was still a pastor .
not much appeared to have changed .
alejo 's father leaned back in his chair with a firm , metallic clink as the legs shifted against the uneven concrete .
alejo jerked his head around to look at him , eyes blank , ready to be verbally decimated .
he was almost looking forward to it .
`` amor , '' pablo began , in a deep , only slightly unsteady voice directed at his wife .
`` please go back downstairs with the kids and stay with wara .
i need to talk with our son ?
alone . ''
fine , alejo steeled himself .
man to man .
alejo was glad his father appeared sufficiently cool-headed and rational , even after alejo 's horrifying revelation .
he needed to talk with his father about a plan to save their lives .
it was a heavy first conversation , all in all , after fourteen years .
noly and nazaret still could n't speak , and the two of them made their way unsteadily towards the black door that led back to their room .
nathaniel followed them slowly , eyes dark , glancing back at his long-lost brother with a mixture of morbid curiosity and fear .
he gently closed the rusting door with a slight clang behind him .
alejo opened his mouth to speak as pablo abruptly pushed one of the wrought-iron chairs across the concrete with his foot , causing a high-pitched scraping sound .
`` please sit down . ''
alejo 's father motioned towards the chair , directly across the table from himself , with his chin .
alejo sat down in the chair , hiding his uneasiness .
`` are your brothers , sisters , and your mother safe downstairs ? ''
pablo asked first .
his voice was even and low , but alejo noticed a bead of sweat riding his father 's forehead .
`` for now .
i have to get all of you out of here as soon as possible .
it 's ?
not safe for you here anymore , and you 'll all have to ?
leave the country . ''
alejo winced as he heard his own words , suddenly realizing how crazy they sounded .
i have n't seen them in years , and now i show up and tell them they have to leave the only country they 've ever known .
now .
`` you need to explain this to me again , '' pablo sighed seriously .
`` you were involved with a muslim organization that you have become uninvolved with , and because of that they are after us , to kill us ? ''
alejo nodded , miserable .
`` yep , they as in some pretty well-trained , smart guys .
if i do n't get you into hiding , they will find you . ''
now a little of his father 's composure crumpled and he swallowed hard before getting out the next question .
`` you ?
killed noah ?
the bus ?
you ?
did that ? ''
had he not believed it before ?
bile rushed into alejo 's stomach and he curled his fingers around the chair 's sharp armrests with an iron grip to avoid once again emptying his stomach .
he had never seen the man , but noah had been one of his sister 's best friends .
in the taxi , wara had told him how noah had been in charge of getting his sister home safely every night they worked until late at a caf in downtown cochabamba .
`` franco salazar was on the bus , heading back to la paz , '' alejo managed .
`` he was an evil man , and the bomb was meant for him . ''
alejo 's father 's face looked very pained , and he searched his son 's eyes carefully .
alejo felt sick , not at all ready to get into a discussion of the past with his father .
his father 's face , however , was unreadable .
`` did you only come back to warn us because we are your family ? ''
alejo nearly shot out of his chair .
`` no !
i told you , i 'm not a muslim anymore , and i have left the organization !
i knew i needed to leave for a while , when i realized that i believe what jesus taught , not islam .
but i found out that if i left , they would come after you ! ''
rambling and stammering , alejo 's statement about believing jesus obviously came as another shock to his father .
surely the last thing that makes any sense right now is to hear that his son has just left islam , after committing murder , and is now declaring himself to be a follower of jesus .
alejo groaned and leaned back heavily in his chair .
`` i did n't want anything to happen to you , '' he ground out flatly , `` but they were about to slit wara 's throat .
i had to leave with her . ''
`` thank god you did ? ''
pablo muttered , appearing to be still trying to take it all in .
`` so , you kill people as part of your job , but you decided to help wara .
and now you left that job ? ''
`` dad . ''
alejo cut him off , his whole body tense .
`` i ca n't talk about all this now .
i just ca n't .
i feel bad-it 's been a long time , and i just show up and ruin your lives .
for that , you do n't know how sorry i am .
now , unfortunately , we 've got to talk about getting you all out of here .
i have more than enough money , and i 'll do whatever it takes . ''
pablo seemed hurt by alejo 's tone , and he stared at his son , maybe trying to find the skinny fourteen year old boy who had left his house in anger .
alejo shifted his eyes uncomfortably , refused to let his gaze ride to the floor .
`` son , '' pastor martir finally said , voice breaking a little , `` where have you been ?
your mother thought you must be dead .
or working for drug dealers , in prison ? ''
`` well , '' alejo clipped , stomach tight , `` as you can see , everything is so much better than you imagined . ''
he immediately regretted his sarcastic words as his father looked away .
`` dad , '' alejo said with a sigh , `` there 's nothing i can do to make this reunion a happy one for you . ''
his father looked dazed , then asked , `` so this was all about franco salazar ? ''
alejo felt his heart leap into his chest , and the acid that rushed into his stomach told him that there was no way he could talk about this with his father , not now .
`` i told you , dad , i just ca n't talk about it , '' he insisted , eyes dark .
pablo martir 's face looked so pained that alejo tried to soften his tone , ignoring the nausea .
`` maybe someday we can talk .
but not today .
right now the only thing that is important is getting you all out of here , so you can live . ''
the strong shoulders of alejo 's father finally slanted as he crumpled back into the chair , desolate .
alejo 's footsteps dragged as he trudged down the narrow stairs , leaving his father alone on the hostel roof .
seeing his parents again still had the sheen of unreality .
a dark , nightmare-ish unreality , in light of the situation he had put his entire family in .
his mother was right .
he was still confused about half of the kids downstairs , which face went with what name .
he did n't know them .
but they were his brothers and sisters , for goodness sake !
alejo loosed a heavy sigh and waited outside the hostel room door , fighting the urge to find cigarettes and do some serious smoking .
he 'd quit years ago , after finding that wheezing while trying to outrun danger and bullets could be pretty inconvenient .
and now , suddenly , that life was over .
he , alejo martir , was no longer employed by the prism , and he might never see his team , who were like brothers , again .
and if he did ever see their faces , it could be behind the muzzle of a gun .
alejo blinked , startled , as the wooden door jerked open and he found himself facing nazaret .
`` you should n't have opened to me , '' he scolded softly .
`` ask first .
you did n't know who i was . ''
nazaret 's round face waned exhausted .
she met his eyes sadly , shattering him with a million memories of blanket forts under the dining room table and licking popsicles on the front porch .
`` i still do n't know who you are , '' she said , then left him standing at the door and returned to flop onto an unmade bed .
alejo carefully closed the door then turned to his youngest siblings , trying a reassuring smile .
`` your dad will be down in a minute , '' he told them .
they 're probably worried i left him dead up there on the roof .
what kind of brother am i ?
alejo forced his gaze from the wide-eyed little martirs to his mother and wara , sitting wearily together on one of the beds he was glad to see pills on the bedside table ; the stuff he had ordered must have arrived from the pharmacy .
wara and noly had obviously been in deep discussion just before alejo interrupted them and his heart sunk three notches lower , easily imagining that little chat .
there would be the part about how alejo had smacked her in the face , then nearly slit her throat .
and before that , how he had handcuffed her and kissed her .
alejo felt his face heat .
no matter how highly he thought of himself and his problem-solving abilities , there really was no fixing this situation , was there ?
alejo suddenly felt very tired and sank down onto a bed across from wara .
`` we should call your family , '' he said .
wara speared him with reddened eyes .
`` i already did .
from the street .
i called the bennesons , who work with my mission , too . ''
alejo nodded once , admiring how she seemed to make good decisions even in stressful situations .
`` they must want you to come home , right away . ''
noly martir lowered her brows at her son , expression a mixture of love and annoyance .
`` of course they do , alejandro .
their daughter almost died .
but she wo n't go . ''
alejo eyed wara , whose jaw was set firmly .
`` she wo n't go until she finds out if noah is still alive . ''
alejo remained silent , removing his gaze from his mother and sister and folding his arms across his chest .
his mother and sister must think him a psychopath .
and maybe i am .
keys jingled in the lock and alejo tensed , then relaxed as pablo martir entered the room .
it was time to leave this room , and quickly .
he and wara would be just on the other side of the thin wall , definitely within his ear shot in case of danger .
basically ignoring his wayward oldest son , pastor martir walked among his younger children , forcing a smile and patting them each on the head .
noly pulled little naveli onto her lap and kissed her .
`` i 've been talking with your brother , '' pablo addressed the whole family , `` and he has some very good ideas of how to help us , which we 'll talk about tomorrow .
now it 's time for all of us to sleep , but first we 're going to pray .
no matter what happens , god is always with us , and he keeps us all in the palm of his hand . ''
strangling on the need to escape this little moment of martir family prayer , alejo quickly stood up and moved towards wara .
`` excuse me .
i 'll get out of your way so you can take care of your family . ''
you sound so cold .
as if they were n't your family too .
but it had been so long , an entire lifetime .
naveli peeped at alejo from long-lashed hazel eyes , lips purple around a giant lollipop .
alejo stared at her , then tore his gaze away and motioned to wara .
`` i 'm sorry , but you 'd better come with me . ''
everyone started , and alejo faced his parents .
`` i registered us downstairs together .
besides , i told her i 'd take care of her .
i 'm not letting her out of my sight . ''
alejo was surprised when wara rolled out of bed without arguing and prepared to follow him .
the zombie-like expression in her eyes , along with her lack of protest , actually worried him .
wara looked ready to collapse .
equally as worrying was the fact that no one in his family protested his orders , at least not with words .
after all , i suppose you do n't argue with a man who 's just confessed to being a killer , even if he is your own son .
wara stumbled next to him towards the door .
alejo left his family locked in the room , more disgusted with himself than he had been in a long , long time .
19 transparent the door slid open before wara and alejo with a mute whine .
alejo flipped on the light switch and wara pushed past him into the room , identical to the martirs ' except that it held only two single beds .
past the point of absolute exhaustion , wara stumbled over to one of the beds and kicked off her white flip-flops .
the wool blanket covered worn , striped sheets , and she ripped back the covers and fell inside .
she forced her breathing to even , willing herself to sleep , just sleep .
she was lying here in a hostel room with the man who tried to kill her and noah .
only sleep would bring the blessed unconsciousness she craved .
but sleep would n't come .
her frayed mind whirled around a single thought , faster and faster , polishing it to a weighty obsession .
finally , she flipped herself over on the lumpy bed to face alejo , still visible in the dim light of the small bedside lamp .
he was hunched over on the edge of the other bed , wearing the same gray t-shirt and cargo pants , head in his hands .
for some reason , the thought crossed wara 's mind that those were now his only clothes ; nazaret 's brother had literally left his old life with only the clothes on his back .
he frowning , wara realized that he could probably never go back and get any of his stuff from wherever he had lived , because now he was in big trouble .
because he had saved wara 's life .
`` why did you do it ? ''
she wondered out loud .
alejo twisted to face her , hazel eyes rimmed in red .
`` the bus ? ''
`` no-i mean yes .
but first-why did you leave your group ?
you believed so much in what you were doing you were willing to even kill . ''
the words tasted bitter , like copper .
`` why would you leave ? ''
alejo drew in a breath , and it was sharp , hurried .
he took his time , swinging his legs over to the other side of the bed so he could face her , eyes flickering back and forth .
the guy looked tortured .
he raised his eyes to hers , slowly closed then opened them .
`` it started because of jesus , '' he said .
`` i realized that i ca n't believe what i believe about him and be a muslim .
my group is made up of muslims .
but then there is ishmael , our boss . ''
he hesitated , eyes flickering again as if seeing some painful scene across the back of his eyelids .
wara saw the exact moment he decided to go ahead with whatever it was he was going to tell her .
`` ishmael and other powerful men do n't want the word to get out about what i saw in pakistan , '' he said .
`` on my last trip there , ishmael took me to the tribal area near afghanistan .
that 's a place ? ''
`` i know where that is . ''
`` ok. '' wara enjoyed the moment of showing him she was n't as dumb as he might think .
alejo nodded with respect and continued .
`` we were way out in the middle of nowhere , visiting a five-house town near the fighting .
and huddled inside one of the buildings where fighters crash when they 're not out shooting rockets at each other , i found about one hundred bolivian teenagers , dressed like mujahedeen , waiting to go back to the skirmish . ''
wara frowned , confused .
`` what ?
? ''
`` that 's how i found out , wara , that ishmael 's foundation has been recruiting among the native peoples , especially in bolivia .
he explained to me that the recruiters visit small towns in the countryside and talk to the young guys .
they recruit them for islam , but in reality they exploit them , only telling them about an islam that they can join to fight together against a common cause : western imperialism .
they tell these converts that they are getting an expense-paid trip overseas to study for free .
but they end up in the tribal area , or god knows where else . ''
`` the missing ! ''
wara repeated the term the quechua women had used on that trip to the bible conference with noah .
`` in the countryside , a lot of women told me that their sons have disappeared . ''
alejo 's mouth pressed together in a firm line .
`` i do n't know how many bolivians are over in pakistan right now , or how many have already been killed .
their families will never know . ''
he shook his head and then sat up straighter .
`` anyway , believing what i do about jesus and finding that out meant it was just a matter of time til i left the prism .
when you ?
when i saw you ?
i had to leave right away . ''
alejo 's voice faltered , and he cleared his throat .
`` but ? ''
wara found she could n't say the thought that had just run through her head .
all she could come up with was , `` why did you have to kill us ? ''
`` do you really want to know ? ''
alejo was quieter than wara had expected .
`` it 's not going to make you feel any better , you know .
i ca n't fix it . ''
`` yes , i want to know .
how could you do this ? ''
she crossed her arms tighter across her chest and shivered .
alejo closed his eyes , then looked away .
`` the reason we targeted the bus you were on is because it was chartered by a guy named franco salazar .
salazar is ?
was ?
`` alejo winced but kept going `` ?
not only a government official for the state of cochabamba .
he was also a child molester , and ran the largest child pornography ring in bolivia and paraguay . ''
wara fought to keep her jaw from dropping and stared back at alejo .
that guy had been on her bus ?
`` he was going to leave for thailand , wara , today , from la paz .
did you know thailand is a major center for child prostitution ?
this is not the first time salazar has been to thailand . ''
alejo 's eyes radiated hurt and horror .
despite herself , wara felt her heart twist with disgust for franco salazar-if all of this were really true .
why should i believe anything he says ?
`` the police would never touch him , '' alejo continued , `` because of bribes , high-up friendships .
the man was protected from every angle you can imagine .
how many more children would have their lives ruined , while i sat , a 'good ' man , doing nothing ? ''
alejo raised his hands to make sarcastic quotation marks in the air around the word `` good '' , lips twisting cynically .
he paused , then asked distractedly : `` did my parents ever tell you about ruben mamani ?
no , of course not . ''
alejo caught wara 's blank look and heaved a sigh .
`` they probably forgot .
anyway .
before franco salazar worked for the national government , he was the mayor of quillacollo . ''
a medium-sized town on the outskirts of cochabamba .
`` and before my family lived in cochabamba , they lived in quillacollo , where my dad pastored a really big , popular church . ''
wara vaguely remembered hearing that years ago pablo martir had been senior pastor of a huge church in quillacollo , with its own radio station , seminary , and everything .
alejo was still telling his story .
`` my best friend ruben was a year younger than me , and he was from a poorer family , quechua .
he loved to come over to my house because we had cable and a big yard , and he lived in a little house with one room .
we always played cars and war and everything you can imagine .
and , '' alejo 's eyes darkened dangerously , `` we also went together to play basketball at the community center , which was set up so nicely for the boys from the neighborhood by the friendly local mayor , franco salazar . ''
wara 's gut began to tell her this story was not going to have a pleasant ending .
`` when i was thirteen , '' alejo said in a strangled voice , `` ruben told me that salazar had been abusing him for three years .
i told my parents , because i thought they would do something .
my dad had a lot of influence in the community .
they had a school , and three or four hundred people coming to their church .
my dad even had his own radio program .
i told them , thinking they would tell the police , that they would help my friend and put salazar in jail .
i was thirteen ?
i did n't know what to do without their help .
well , my parents listened to me , and then they looked at each other with this look .
my father told me that we had to keep this to ourselves .
and , of course , my mother agreed .
biblical submission to your husband and all that . ''
alejo 's tanned face had paled in the light of the lamp , and wara frowned deeply , scandalized .
alejo was saying the martirs told him not to report child abuse ?
`` my parents told me that if we put ourselves on salazar 's bad side , '' alejo said , `` we would lose our permission to have the church in the town .
and who would be the light of the gospel to the community then ?
they said , if they got involved in this situation , they would lose all their influence for christ . ''
a long pause and then , in a more composed voice , `` one month later , ruben ended up in a ditch , dead . ''
alejo shrugged , as if all he had said were suddenly of no importance .
`` i went to live with my uncle , in santa cruz and went to a high school built by the iranian government .
life as a pastor 's kid suddenly just did n't seem palatable to me anymore . ''
alejo finished the last sentence of his story in a rush , and then jumped up from the bed , uncomfortable .
`` whatever has happened in the past , it ca n't bring back the people who died , '' he was saying , knuckles white , when wara thrust herself up on one elbow and hissed , `` not 'people ' .
it was n't 'people ' who died .
they had names !
noah hearst died !
may have died ! ''
wara ignored how alejo looked away miserably , probably because she did n't want to give up hope that noah could still have survived .
`` they all had names , '' wara found herself rambling , while at the same time thinking about ruben mamani , alejo 's little friend , thrown away like trash into the mud .
by a horrible man who abused little children while pretending to be a leader who cared about the people , a benefactor .
who built a beautiful community center for desperately poor children to come play basketball , only to lure them into his clutches .
it was good he was dead .
but why could n't only he be dead !
wara felt like sobbing .
now alejo did look physically sick , and he turned towards the door as if to go , then stumbled trying to turn around to again face wara .
`` salazar was a monster , wara , but what i did is still wrong !
i am a murderer .
but i did what seemed right in the moment .
i had to stop it ?
it was the best i could do ! ''
with actual tears running out of the corners of his eyes , alejo whirled away and was at the door of their hostel room in two steps , out of it in three .
alejo martir had left the room crying .
wara covered her head with the blanket and cried too , for noah .
and maybe for ruben .
20 red white and blue sometime while alejo was still up on the roof , wara fell asleep under the faded sheets and heavy blanket .
she was startled , when her eyes cracked open , to see that the hostel room was filled with gray light , filtering through the sheer fabric of the cream curtains .
a few fiery rays of sun poked out from behind a tall red brick building .
it was morning .
wara jerked into a sitting position , flipping her gaze over to alejo 's bed , half-expecting it to still be empty .
his body was tucked under the covers , however , back towards wara .
at the sound of wara 's movement , alejo inhaled sharply and shot up on one elbow , rolling over onto his back at lightning speed .
he seemed relieved to see it was only her .
alejo groaned and sank back onto the pillow on his back , black hair sticking up wildly in all directions .
he scrubbed both fists across his eyes , then swung his legs over the side of the bed , sitting up to look at her .
`` hey , '' he said grimly .
feeling the awkwardness , wara did n't respond .
after the emotional encounter of last night , she did n't know what to say .
if his story were true , it made more sense how he could actually believe god would support killing a man like franco salazar .
but the truth was , wara still did n't feel as if she could trust alejo martir at all .
he could change personalities in an instant , one minute serious and morose , the next charming and convincing , seemingly able to manipulate anyone into doing what he wanted .
she was n't about to trust his story about salazar until she had talked with the martirs and confirmed some facts .
wara threw off the covers and headed for the bathroom in alexis ' wrinkled sweat pants and wombat shirt .
when she came out of the bathroom , he was waiting , pacing by the window , staring down at the alley outside .
`` could you come over to the other room ? ''
he asked .
`` we really need to talk about some stuff . ''
`` ok. '' wara shrugged .
she felt a little better than yesterday , after a quick shower .
soaking off the dried blood had hurt a lot , and she had washed her face without looking in the mirror , afraid of what she would see .
alejo had got her some ibuprofen , but she still felt like some foreign object was lodged on her face , twice the size of her own nose .
at least the throbbing had died down .
fighting the depression , wara trudged after alejo to the hall and the martirs ' door .
it was cracked open , and alejo pushed the deadbolt into place after they slipped inside .
`` dad . ''
alejo 's voice sounded unnatural saying the word .
`` can you come here for a second ?
i need to run this by you . ''
pablo martir looked as if he had n't slept a wink all night and he was staring out the window at the mountains .
`` alright , '' he said , and he and his son moved to one of the beds in the corner , each cautiously sitting down at the furthest extremes possible and beginning a hushed , strained conversation .
wara plopped down on a bed next to nazaret and noly at the other side of the room .
the kids were huddled on the beds , munching half-heartedly on cheesy empanada pastries and sipping chocolate milk from flimsy plastic cups .
the thought of food made wara want to gag .
`` have you heard any more news ? ''
she asked nazaret 's mom .
she was terrified they might have heard more news .
as long as there was no news , there was still hope .
noly yawned and covered her mouth with one hand .
`` no , '' she said , and wara closed her eyes in relief .
`` i made a call really early-from the street , of course .
alejandro says no cell phones .
the bennesons from your mission say they still have n't identified the body of any foreigners .
so far , the confirmed dead are a government guy from cochabamba and three of his staff : two women and one man . ''
she was so glad they had n't found noah .
dead .
but a pang came along with it , because those people who died had been on the bus with her .
shed seen them whispering and laughing as they got on the bus .
when noah decided to get on his knees in the aisle and give her the ring , the people in the back had clapped .
she searched for the right words , and finally said , `` i made alejo tell me why he did what he did .
he was trying to kill the man who used to be mayor of quillacollo .
he said that you guys used to know him . ''
`` ah . ''
noly 's eyes grew sad , and she glanced over at nazaret .
`` franco salazar ? ''
`` yeah , '' wara nodded , snatching a watermelon bubble gum from the bedside table and popping it in her mouth .
her body seemed to float inches above the bed , and she felt a desperate need for the sugar .
`` alejo said that franco salazar was involved in all kinds of horrible stuff .
and that he killed a friend of his from when they were little-ruben . ''
nazaret 's face went pale .
`` i just heard last night .
i mean , i remember when little ruben died , but i did n't know ? ''
`` she did n't know anything about salazar possibly being involved , '' noly murmured .
`` that part of our history is a painful memory that marked our lives forever .
the kids were so young they did n't know what was really going on .
her father told her last night , because salazar came up when he was talking with alejo . ''
noly pointed her chin towards nazaret , who looked conflicted .
`` did he tell you we did n't report what happened to ruben ? ''
wara rolled her eyes and nodded , waiting for noly to say that idea was ridiculous .
but instead , noly 's eyes crinkled as she said , `` we 've regretted that decision , made out of pride and reluctance to lose our place in the community , ever since . ''
wara was stunned .
she blinked and turned her head towards alejo , deep in discussion with his father .
`` alejo ran the day ruben was found dead , just after he turned fourteen , '' noly continued , swallowing hard and swiping at mascara running down one cheek .
`` it took years for us to understand how wrong we were .
we started the children 's center in villa candelaria to try to repent , somehow .
it 's all true , wara .
i know why he wanted salazar dead . ''
wara was still in a daze when alejo 's voice cut into their conversation .
`` you guys are involved with the children 's center in villa candelaria ?
i 'm ?
surprised .
and glad .
i 've heard of that place -- -it 's famous all over the country .
i just did n't know ?
that you were involved . ''
`` we are , son , '' pastor martir said from behind him , and alejo nodded slowly , seemingly confused by this new development .
`` i talked with ?
dad , '' alejo said .
the word still seemed to taste bitter in his mouth .
`` he thinks it would be good for you all to try to go to the united states .
to visit aunt wendy .
i have plenty of money , and i 'm going to go get as much as i can out of the bank now , before you go . ''
alejo 's family all stared at him with expressions of disbelief that clearly said : go ?
you mean like right now ?
`` wo n't they be watching the bank ?
all your buddies ? ''
wara demanded , imagining gabriel and scary benjamin staking out the bank with rifles from a crumbling apartment window across the street .
alejo shook his head .
`` there are ten branches of my bank here in cochabamba , and they do n't have enough manpower to watch all of them at the same time .
today i can get enough to take care of you all for quite awhile , and the rest is in a cayman islands account only i have access to .
i 'll get all that to you later . ''
pastor martir stood frowning at his son , burly arms crossed in front of his chest .
alejo grunted and turned to wara .
`` none of the family have passports , except dad .
i want to see if the u.s. will give them visas and put them in protection , in exchange for the information i have .
we also need to let the embassy know you 're alive . ''
he took wara back to their room , and alejo dialed the embassy number on a brand-new cell phone he had picked up across the street .
wara took another handful of ibuprofen from the bedside table and forced herself to sip water while alejo talked with someone for quite a long time .
by his frustrated expression , wara could tell the conversation did n't go well .
`` so ? ''
she asked as he punched the end button a little too hard and slammed a fist into the bedpost .
`` they agree with you , '' alejo scowled at the little gray phone .
`` i do n't think they bought most of what i said , but from the little i told them now , they have decided that i am a terrorist .
and , '' alejo hurled the phone onto the bed , obviously using less force than he would have liked , `` the u.s. government does not help the family of terrorists . ''
`` what !
? ''
wara squawked .
`` they wo n't help them because you 're a terrorist ?
but that 's why they need help ! ''
alejo 's mouth twisted into a grim smile .
`` i guess you 're right .
robert cole at the embassy told me to tell you that you should contact them so they can pick you up immediately to send you home , by the way .
they are going to call your family right away and confirm that you are alive and well . ''
both alejo and wara flinched at that expression .
`` they have n't found the bodies of any americans , '' he added after a while , then looked away .
wara 's heart revved .
they had n't found noah 's body .
which meant he could still be alive .
he had to still be alive .
`` so now where will you send the martirs ? ''
she asked shakily .
`` since the good old u.s. of a has been so helpful ? ''
alejo grimaced and massaged his temple , feet planted on the tile floor .
`` everyone i know who could be any help in hiding them is connected to the prism .
without all those contacts , i ca n't get passports , visas , anything . ''
he let out a frustrated breath and then sat up , looking at wara .
`` we 'll go to plan b , '' he announced .
`` i 'll put them on a bus to lima this afternoon .
they wo n't check passports at the border , since they do n't look like tourists .
we 'll take a taxi to sacaba , that little town outside the city , and take a bus from there .
the guys , hopefully , will only be watching the main terminal here in the city .
they can get passports at the embassy there and take a flight to another country .
it 's all so sudden , but we have enough money and i can make a new life for my family . ''
alejo sighed slowly , watching wara .
`` you should call the embassy to come pick you up , '' he said .
wara 's mind was reeling .
those guys she had seen on the mountain -- -they would forget about her soon though , right ?
she could go home , see her parents , find a new place to live and work ?
come back to bolivia someday ?
at the moment , wara did n't care at all what she did or where she lived .
only two thoughts consumed her mind : seeing the martirs safe and out of this nightmare , and finding noah hearst .
`` i ca n't go without noah . ''
the words slipped out before wara realized it .
alejo looked at her sharply , mouth open as if about to protest but she cut him off .
`` i wo n't leave bolivia until i know . ''
his mouth snapped shut , and he got up quickly and paced to the other bed , lowering himself down cross-legged on top of the unmade covers .
he closed his eyes and massaged his temples even harder .
`` i 'll stay with you until they know , '' alejo said finally .
`` my family can go on ahead , and we can meet them .
i 'm not going to leave you alone . ''
`` but ? ''
wara tried to protest , but could n't come up with anything reasonable to say .
no , you go on .
i 'll just ward off all of those killers myself .
i did such a lovely job of it last time .
alejo 's very presence in the room caused a veritable host of unpleasant sensations in wara 's brain .
so why did her heart flood with something like relief at his plan ?
`` thank you , '' was all she finally said , fighting hard not to cry .
21 cinnamon the hostal salta seemed lonely and depressing after the martirs left .
when alejo and wara pulled up in front of the hostel in a white taxi , the street lamps were already gleaming upon the darkened sidewalk , though people still hustled by in both directions .
wara supposed it must be around seven o'clock-one hour after she had waved good-bye to the family who had been like her own .
she had barely been able to make out each face , peering through the tinted windows of a sleek double-decker bus about to depart for lima , peru .
alejo had convinced his family to follow his plan , then had them call a friend from church to bring clothes from the market and food for the trip .
all of the kids ' clothes and toys stayed behind .
the faded photograph of missing alejandro from nazaret 's dresser .
anyone who brought things from the martirs house could be followed back here to the hostel .
the younger kids climbed onto the bus at sacaba with huge tears in their eyes .
silky gray rain clouds swirled across the evening sky , threatening a downpour as the entire martir family boarded the bus that would take them away from bolivia .
nazaret sobbed as she hugged wara , hesitated , and then threw herself at her brother , weeping against his chest .
alejo 's back had been towards her , but wara had seen him put his arms around nazaret until she pulled away .
now , wara stepped out of the taxi and slammed the door , facing the unlit stars of the hostel .
she and alejo , who had tried to kill her , were alone here together , and wara had never felt so strange .
the faded pinstriped sheets and lumpy pillows were still waiting .
wara felt even more depressed as she entered their hostel room , realizing that alejo was now her only company .
maybe she could call nazaret on her long bus trip later , just to hear the sound of a known voice .
alejo had picked up several more cheap little prepaid cell phones from the viva shop , and given three to the martirs , plus one to wara .
wara had made one call to the bennesons , to ask them to call her on this number as soon as there was any news about noah .
explaining why they should n't give the number to anyone else had been tricky , as was trying to tell them why she was n't at home in the apartment below theirs , and could n't come back for safety reasons .
why am i here with alejo , instead of letting the u.s. embassy pick me up and take care of me until i know about noah ?
after hanging up with the bennesons , the question had bothered her .
because the embassy does n't even seem to believe what is going on , wara realized .
you do n't know them .
alejo is a martir-and you know him .
that 's crazy !
wara had scolded herself .
he 's one of them !
alejo closed the door and turned on the light .
thirty seconds of silence filled the room , as both of them sunk down onto one of the beds , listless .
then he sighed and asked : `` do you want to go to la paz ?
the search and rescue efforts are working from there , and it 's the closest major hospital . ''
wara stared at him , feeling very weary , having a hard time understanding what he was saying .
did she want to go to la paz ?
of course !
if they find noah that would be where they would take him , the best major hospital .
noly said that noah 's parents were going to be in la paz , waiting .
but wara could n't decide what she wanted to do at all , except that she wanted to see her best friend who she loved again .
`` i do n't know , '' she finally said hoarsely .
`` what do you think ? ''
alejo looked away .
`` they 've been searching for two days now , and they should be done soon .
noah lived here ; the funeral will-would be-in cochabamba .
i think you should stay here . ''
his words hit wara like a punch in the gut .
everything alejo said sounded so logical , but the cold reality of making such a decision based on the fact that the funeral would be here ?
for a moment she could n't breathe .
it took her a long time to collect her thoughts and say , weakly , `` ok. '' all day she had waited with bated breath , feeling that any phone call could bring news that noah had been found , alive .
but hearing alejo say that he expected the news would be about the funeral brought wara back down to reality with a very painful crash .
after a long while she heard alejo say , `` i told danny downstairs that we 're checking out tonight .
we need to move to another place-it wo n't be that hard for the guys to show our picture to reception at all of the cheap hostels in cochabamba , and the longer we stay in one place , the more time they have to do that . ''
his voice sounded tight , but calm , not as bone-weary as wara herself felt .
`` alright , '' she managed .
her eyes were closed , and she felt her breathing slow , suddenly so relaxed she felt almost one with the sagging mattress underneath her .
she cleared her throat and mumbled , `` right now ? ''
the thought crossed wara 's mind that if she never got up off this bed again , that would be perfectly fine .
`` yeah , right now , '' alejo said , almost sounding apologetic .
`` we need to get going .
and besides , now 's a good time .
we 'll be going under cover of darkness . ''
wara cracked open her eyes and raised one eyebrow at him .
his hazel eyes were watching her , expression unreadable .
`` fine , '' she answered him , sliding her eyes back shut .
`` but i think you 'll have to pack my bag for me . ''
a joke , since her belongings consisted of two changes of clothes the martirs ' friend had brought her from the market , along with a toothbrush and shampoo .
alexis ' shiny-reared sweat pants and wombat shirt had found their final resting place in the bathroom trash can .
wara realized that alejo had actually gotten up and was bringing her toothbrush from the bathroom .
he made sure it was inside the brown plaid bag that had also come from the market , and then slung that and a black backpack that had been brought for him over his shoulder .
`` ready ? ''
he asked , standing near the door .
`` i promise you can sleep when we get to our new place . ''
wara sighed loudly and rolled off the bed , hanging on to the side until she was steady .
her bleary gaze fell on alejo , and she thought he did n't look quite as threatening now that he was no longer wearing the military-style cargo pants and sweaty gray t-shirt from up on the mountain .
he actually looked rather normal now in dark jeans , a hunter green hoodie , and leather tennis shoes .
`` are they going to find them ? ''
she asked groggily , as she followed alejo out the door into the hallway .
without turning around , he answered carefully , `` i do n't think so .
i would never forgive myself . ''
their taxi sped along the highway towards sacaba , the same route they had taken to say good-bye to the martirs .
not even halfway to sacaba , alejo directed the taxi driver to veer off the highway towards a gravel-covered incline .
with a sharp tap of the brakes , the driver darted in front of oncoming traffic on the highway 's opposite lane and bumped onto the more uneven road .
he then punched the gas , letting the shiny , newer taxi climb up towards wherever their final destination would be .
spanish pop music filled the clean , gray interior of the taxi , and the young driver , wearing a peach polo shirt , tapped a muscular forearm against the steering wheel to keep rhythm .
this under-maintained road took them higher and higher up one of the mountains at cochabamba 's northern edge , the bumps and ruts jolting the taxi with more violence the farther along they went .
three iridescent cds hung from the top of the windshield on gold cords , dangling and swaying with each jolt of the car .
`` a los moteles , no amigo ? ''
the taxi driver 's eyes met alejo 's in the rear view mirror .
`` yep , '' alejo nodded to him , mouth turning up .
`` el cupido . ''
wara glanced over at alejo sharply .
they were entering an area where the dusty road was pock-marked with rocks and shaded by eucalyptus trees .
on either side , brightly-painted walls rose up , sporting neon signs with names that did not appear to be those of respectable hotels : safari , the oasis , the `` park drive-in '' , and lover 's paradise .
wara stared in disbelief , and then her eyes fell upon a towering sign of a glowing cupid , complete with heart-tipped arrows .
and underneath , a giant closed gate painted the color of red hot candies with an enormous pink heart .
oh , this was not good .
someone had once made a comment to her that in some part of cochabamba there were `` motels '' where one could pay for rooms by the hour , usually for romantic encounters .
the taxi that held alejo and wara had pulled up in front of the looming hot pink heart , which now filled the entire windshield .
their taxi driver honked twice merrily and waited , still tapping the steering wheel to the rhythm .
you have got to be kidding me , wara gaped , then snapped her mouth shut and whirled towards alejo .
`` what is this ? ''
she hissed .
he tried to appear unfazed , obviously having known wara would react this way .
`` this is the only place where you can stay without having to show id , '' he whispered in her ear .
alejo scooted closer and slung an arm around her shoulder .
`` just act natural , ok ?
i had to lie through my teeth to get danny back at the salta to let you stay without id , and he only did it because he 's a nice guy .
we 've got these nice , dark tinted windows .
that 's why i picked this taxi . ''
alejo motioned fluidly towards one of the windows , as if waiting for wara to take in how they were invisible to prying eyes outside the taxi and stop being angry that he had brought her to a motel called el cupido .
then he continued , squeezing her close against his side for the taxi driver 's benefit .
`` probably just some kid will come out to take our money , and then we 've got a room .
if the guys from my team would come here , no one has got our id .
plus , this place is pretty secretive .
i 'm sure you can imagine why '' wara swallowed hard .
she closed her eyes and counted to ten , mortally embarrassed , doing her best not to rip herself away from alejo 's grip .
just when she thought she could n't stand it a moment longer , the huge wooden door of love swung open by some invisible hand and the idling taxi drove inside .
the courtyard they entered was grassy , shaded with trees , and mostly dark .
off to the right , wara could see a long row of motel rooms , each sporting a pair of hearts painted on the red hot , numbered doors .
stifling a groan , wara leaned her head back onto the seat back .
alejo winked at the driver , who seemed to be enjoying this .
`` you 'll talk to the boy for us , right ?
just slit the window so no one 'll see us . ''
`` no problem , '' the guy in the peach shirt nodded , and with one touch of a button the cobalt glass glided a few inches lower , revealing a brief glimpse of a young boy with chocolate skin and a tattered green hulk t-shirt .
`` si , amigo ? ''
he said into the taxi , and wara was shocked by the squeakiness of the kid 's voice .
he could n't be more than ten years old .
what was he doing in this kind of place ?
`` ask him how much for two days , '' alejo told the driver .
`` five hundred bolivianos , '' the taxi driver announced after consulting with the boy outside .
he raised his eyebrows at alejo in the mirror .
alejo pulled out a fat wad of red one hundred boliviano notes from the pocket of his jeans and peeled five off .
the driver passed them through the cracked-open window and the kid counted the money , crisping the bills in his hand with the efficiency of a los vegas casino employee .
`` number six , '' the kids squeaked , and passed something metallic and jingly into the interior of the car .
alejo snatched the item from the driver 's burly fist , and wara saw it was a single silver key , attached to a key chain with a cherry red , puffy , lace-trimmed heart .
alejo started to hand her the key , saw her face , and then lowered his eyes , stuffing the key into the pocket of his hoodie .
the driver sealed the window shut with a soft hiss , and then slowly pulled across the grass to leave them closer to the heart doors .
without a word , alejo opened the car door for wara , then paid the driver .
`` do n't look behind you when you get out , '' alejo breathed into her ear , and wara 's cheeks flamed as she exited into the cool night .
she gathered her composure and followed alejo , forcing herself to stare at the double hearts ahead instead of behind her , where she thought the boy who had taken their money might still be watching in the darkness .
but then again , the kid was probably already back inside watching cartoons , so used to this life that there was absolutely nothing exciting about the arrival of yet one more couple .
`` see , that was n't too bad , '' alejo said under his breath as he jammed the silver key into the lock .
the plush heart bobbed around wildly as he turned the key to motel room number six .
the wooden door swung open , immersing wara in a warm glow of cinnamon red .
the entire interior of the room was varying shades of red .
lit , neon red christmas lights ran around the ceiling , and the walls were cherry red and white stripes , crisscrossed with painted cupids , arrows ready to fly .
shaggy , worn crimson carpet blanketed the floor , cushioning wara 's ankles as she warily stepped inside .
and in the center of the room sat a double bed , fire-truck red satin comforter shimmering under a gaudy gold headboard in the shape of a heart .
alejo gingerly closed the door behind them and flipped on the light , causing wara to gasp .
a monstrous , cheap crystal chandelier exploded with light above them , and every diamond-shaped light bulb was red , spreading a rosy scarlet hue across everything in the room , including alejo 's face .
`` what do you think ? ''
he had the audacity to ask with a crooked grin .
wara did n't know whether to laugh or run out the door .
`` of course you can have the bed .
i 'll take that couch . ''
wara followed his gaze to the wall , where a plush couch , the color of cinnamon red hot candies , snuggled against the wall .
next to it , a wicker chair with a matching footrest was adorned with cushions to match the couch .
it was all just too much .
`` i hate it ! ''
wara responded to his question , turning in a slow circle around the room .
`` i have never seen anything so ugly in my entire life .
it 's ?
indescribable . ''
`` i 'm sorry i had to bring you here , '' alejo said , seemingly feeling bad for her .
`` it 's just that it really is the best spot to hide ? ''
`` yeah , your reasoning does make a twisted kind of sense , '' wara sighed .
noah would have chuckled at this , and for sure he could have written a hilarious song about this room with this taylor guitar .
nazaret would have been shocked , then dissolved into a fit of giggles .
wara missed both of them so much , and felt awfully , terribly alone .
alejo hauled the wicker chair over under the room 's only window , a long , rectangular-shaped opening that ran higher than the level of their heads next to the door .
he pulled aside the gauzy red curtain and peered outside , probably checking for any bad guys .
the gaze he fixed on her as he stepped down from the fuzzy red couch was so like nazaret 's that for a moment she blinked , forgetting he was really so different from the other martirs .
`` were you really good friends with all those guys i saw up there ? ''
she asked .
alejo dragged the wicker chair back to the corner and sat down , considering how much he was going to tell her .
finally he said , `` most of the guys that were there at first-the guys that carried you up from the road -- were only there for the weekend , for training .
i was n't only in charge of my team , but of training all the guys in most of south america .
that 's why they 're going to be so mad . ''
that last sentence was muttered .
`` four of the guys were on my team-we were like brothers .
gabriel , stalin , benjamin , and lzaro .
well , not lzaro .
he 's new .
but gabriel and benjamin and i shared a house together in coroico .
and stalin and i have been friends for ten years . ''
the memory hit her , leaving a sour taste in her mouth : alejo worked with lzaro .
back when she knew him , lzaro had said he was a christian .
wara did not even want to think how he had reached the point of becoming a radical muslim who was about to cut her throat .
and she really did n't want to talk with alejo about it .
she wandered over to the bed and collapsed on it with slumped shoulders .
she felt sick and weary to the bone .
wara twisted noah 's silver ring on her finger , her only comfort in this awful place .
22 sickly pink wara was exhaused .
she was suffering , and alejo had done this to her .
he watched her , sitting there on the horrible bed in this place he 'd brought her to , playing with a silver ring on her finger .
her eyes were ringed in dark circles , glazed over and in another world she shivered and absently scrubbed at her bare arms , trying to get warm .
alejo 's heart hurt .
he got up and walked over to her backpack by the door and found a black sweater his mom 's friend had brought for wara .
`` its cold in here , '' he offered it to her .
it was dark outside now , chilly and menacing in the shadow of the darkened andes .
she looked into his eyes as he handed her the sweater and her face was bathed in red from gaudy chandelier .
her nose was a sickly violet and yellow , puffy under her reddened eyes .
it had to hurt .
a lot .
alejo closed his eyes slowly , then opened them .
`` i think we should try to rest . ''
he dragged his feet over to the couch .
the ugly thing was three cushions wide , good enough for a decent night 's sleep .
he curled up facing the wall and stuffed a small , hard red pillow under his head .
`` whenever you 're ready , you can turn out the lights , '' he told wara .
`` i can sleep anywhere , with lights or without , so do n't worry about me . ''
as if she would .
alejo grimaced at the back of the couch .
he had no idea what else to say .
wara switched off the light and covers rustled behind him , then everything fell silent .
way too silent .
suddenly , the horror of the day pressed into him with a vengeance and it hurt .
franco salazar was dead , and he could n't say he was sorry .
he believed what he 'd told wara , that he could n't just sit by and watch while thieves attacked the man in the story of the good samaritan ?
or while franco salazar abused kids .
but he 'd never really thought about other people who could be hurt in the middle of delivering justice to the bad guys .
he 'd never laid eyes on noah , but alejo had seen his sister 's tears , heard how the guy played with his little brothers and sisters and made sure nazaret got home safe late at night .
for all alejo knew , that silver ring wara was always playing with was a gift from noah .
it was obvious she cared about him , a lot .
always before , when alejo killed , he had been sure the man who died was scum and deserved whatever he had coming to him .
now , for the first time , someone innocent had been taken out along with the bad .
alejo knew the reason wara 's presence was undoing him : she was the incarnation of a person simply caught in the crossfire .
he felt guilty for the other innocent people on the bus , but he had never seen them .
when he looked into wara 's eyes and realized what he had done , there had been no going back .
the combination of leaving islam , leaving the prism , and trying to figure out why , if he had done god 's will , he could still feel so wrong , spun alejo 's world upside down .
a half-hour or so went by , and wara 's even breathing seemed to indicate that she was asleep .
a slightly hellish glow filtered into the dark room through the sheer red curtains from a street lamp in the courtyard outside .
alejo closed his eyes but he just could n't sleep .
and then there 's my family .
who he had avoided in anger for years , then dragged into the very path of death .
he kept thinking about his father , and the few words they had had just before the martirs went to sacaba to take the bus away from bolivia .
pablo martir told alejo he wanted to speak with him up on the roof again , alone , and alejo had steeled himself for the conversation .
he really hoped his father would understand that there was n't much that could be added to what had already been said .
there was nothing alejo could say that would make it right .
there was nothing his father could say that would make alejo feel more acutely how badly he had messed up , getting his entire family into this situation .
there was no other solution that alejo could see to the problem ; even if he would walk right back into coroico and show up at the doorstep of his old house so the prism could shoot him , the 964 would still be angry , and they could still go after his family .
and wara was still a witness .
alejo had trudged up the concrete steps to the roof , following the broader form of his father .
all these years , he had imagined that his father was still occupied as a pastor , preaching that jesus saves while letting the world go to hell .
somehow , finding out that he had been directing the only center for children with aids in the country , which would now be left without leadership because of alejo , made alejo feel even more depressed .
the faded sheets were still drifting lazily on the line in the afternoon breeze on the hostel rooftop .
alejo 's father turned to face his son squarely .
`` son , i ca n't tell you how sorry i am we ca n't have more time together .
there is so much more i 'd like to talk about , but as you said , now is not the time ? ''
his voice cracked a little , and alejo felt his shoulders tense .
`` so much time lost , '' pablo continued , `` and now i do n't even know what will happen , what you ? ''
he stopped and sighed , obviously thinking something along the lines of , `` ?
if you are going to continue being a criminal , because that really complicates our relationship . ''
`` the one thing i want to ask you before we leave , though , '' alejo 's father said after the scowl had faded , `` is about what you said before , about jesus .
you said that you have been a muslim ? ''
`` yep , i 've been a muslim since i was eighteen , '' alejo confirmed dryly , wondering where his father was going with this .
`` but you told me that you are no longer a muslim , that you are a christian . ''
alejo hesitated , the term christian still racking him with unpleasant sensations of long sermons with too many amens .
people pretending to praise god while peeking to see whose hands were raised the highest .
little boys dead in the grass so that no one would disrupt the worship of god in the church building every sunday .
alejo exhaled loudly .
`` i guess so ... dad .
i do n't want to be a christian like i was taught .
i 'm sorry .
when i read the bible and saw what jesus said ?
it was like i had never heard most of it before .
and i wanted that .
i want that .
it 's him i want , not a religion . ''
pablo sighed deeply , eyes boring into his son 's .
then he actually stepped forward to clasp alejo 's shoulder , tears in his eyes .
`` we all need a lot of grace right now , '' he said hoarsely .
pablo martir let go of his son and turned as if to go , then paused .
without looking back he said , `` noah had jesus living in him .
he would have forgiven you , alejandro . ''
alejo had shivered , staring at the back of his father 's head as he walked towards the metal door that led back downstairs and disappeared .
then noah was a better man that i am , he thought .
alejo , who usually could sleep like a baby even with a rock for a pillow , finally drifted into a fitful sleep on the soft red couch .
he jerked upright at a foreign sound filling the room .
a cell phone !
slapping around in the darkness , he got a hold on the metal chain of a pink floral lamp next to the couch and yanked it , flooding the motel room with sickly-sweet light .
wara had already flown across the room towards her bag and was throwing out clothes , looking for the phone that kept drilling its tinny tune into the night .
realizing it was n't there , she dove back for the bed , crawled over it , and grabbed the phone vibrating across the nightstand .
her hands were shaking so hard she could hardly flip the thing open to gasp a breathless , `` hello ? ''
alejo sank back into the couch , hoping the call was his sister in need of a midnight conversation .
the odds were against that , however ; there really was n't a good chance a call in the middle of the night would bring good news .
`` yeah , it 's me . ''
wara 's voice quivered .
she waited , then waited some more .
alejo exhaled as her entire body crumpled and sank back into the sheets , seemingly buried in the mass of fluffy pillows and thick satin bedspread .
`` when ? ''
silence , and then she choked out , `` th-thank you . ''
the cell phone shut with a near-silent click , and then alejo saw wara pull the covers up over her head .
`` you can go back to sleep , '' she finally said in a voice that did not sound like herself .
`` the bennesons just wanted to let me know that the funeral will be tomorrow at ten . ''
they found him .
alejo 's blood chilled , and he pulled the lamp off quickly , as if afraid to sit any longer in the light when he just found out he had caused a funeral .
rubbing his temples , alejo rolled back onto the couch , slowly , staring up at the ceiling .
his brain told him he should say something .
what kind of man just sat there without saying anything when a woman finds out the guy she loved has died ?
alejo did n't even need to run through the possible options in his mind , however , to know that finding something adequate to say to her would be impossible .
taking a deep breath , he shivered , eyes fixed on nothing in the darkness until it was nearly morning .
a morning in which alejo would go to a funeral .
23 bittersweet the morning passed by as if in a dream .
after somehow getting ready , wara followed alejo out of el cupido and waited a few blocks away on a shaded corner for a missionary family , the paulsons , to come pick them up .
alejo had said something about the prism finding them , so they would need to try to sneak into the house where the funeral would be held .
he insisted she call someone with a van so they could hide out lying on the floor .
the paulsons had quickly agreed to pick them up .
corban and misty paulson had been good friends with noah ; no one said a word during the entire ride to the house where the funeral would be held .
a solemn metallic clanging and the stilling of the purring engine told wara that the van had finally arrived inside the gate of the bennesons ' house .
she picked herself up off the floor , brushing crumbs off her pants in a daze .
she followed alejo and the paulsons across the wide lawn with its spiky green grass , around a multitude of assorted land cruisers and brasilias already parked inside the house 's walls .
the zip of cool air inside the shade of the white-walled house hit her face , along with the unnatural hush emanating from within .
everyone turned to stare as she slipped through the door .
wara swayed on her feet , overcome by the sight of all of her friends , noah 's friends , gathered here , because noah was actually dead .
`` wara ! ''
tobin was folding her into an embrace against his bony shoulders .
`` i ca n't believe this happened to noah .
we were so worried .
about both of you . ''
wara pulled away from him numbly , only to find herself hugged by person after person from her mission .
from noah 's church .
tobias , the other australian , was scrubbing reddish eyes , obviously trying not to cry as he gave her a quick hug .
she saw tobin 's gaze ride up to where alejo stood somewhere in the background , probably looking dangerous and out of place at a funeral with his uncut curly hair and jeans .
wara wondered for a brief moment if she should feel like a traitor for daring to come to noah 's funeral with the man who was responsible for his death .
but then she realized she could n't feel anything , not yet .
`` wara , '' tobias was saying , `` we brought a guitar for you .
they want you to sing something for noah-just one song .
can you do it ? ''
wara gulped , then nodded without thinking .
of course she would sing , if it was for noah .
it was her last chance .
`` thanks , '' tobias nodded and sniffed loudly , laying a hand on her arm .
then he was off in the direction of the living room .
she did n't know what to do , so she just followed him , practically floating in the sea of people milling around here at noah 's funeral .
it was unreal .
wara really , really wanted to cry .
as she moved to go into the main living area , a huge , arched room painted in bold colors , rough fingers brushed her arm .
wara looked up to find eduardo sejas , the good-looking bolivian guy who had been in coroico with noah .
his usually twinkling eyes were red-rimmed behind black trendy glasses , and he wore a dark suit and tie .
`` wara , '' he started , and then his voice choked .
`` you 're still alive .
we were so worried ? ''
`` is he here ? ''
wara heard herself say , glancing towards the living room .
`` yeah , '' eduardo said , and sighed .