`` it 's late , '' the doctor told wara .
`` why do n't you try to get some rest , while we draw some blood for the tests . ''
everyone shuffled out into the hallway , leaving wara alone with alejo , lying still and pale in the bed .
staring at the ceiling and seeing nothing .
`` get some rest , '' the doctor says .
tomorrow could n't come fast enough .
wara needed to escape to lima .
27 sapphire gabriel shara forced himself to eat breakfast that morning purely out of habit .
his stomach was full of butterflies with razor wings and his hands tingled as he sat at the table near the large picture window in the kitchen .
he was waiting for manuel , and manuel was not coming .
gabriel realized that the hot water in his ceramic mug was getting cold , and he distractedly unscrewed the red plastic lid of the nescafe jar and scooped a generous heap of instant coffee into the water .
he added two tiny spoons of sugar and a stream of cream , stirring it around without thinking .
a tightly-sealed bag of crusty marraqueta bread had been delivered this morning and was sitting on the middle of the white lacquer table .
gabriel extracted one of them , sliced it open with a serrated knife from the table , and began to spread regia margarine and strawberry jam on each side .
as he bit into the chewy , warm bread , the thought crossed his mind : these are exactly like the ones my mom used to make , in the clay oven in the back yard .
gabriel 's mouth twitched into a smile at the image of his fashionable , upper-class mother , standing in the backyard in a pink apron and huge oven mitts , waiting for the crust of the marraquetas to reach just the right texture so she could snatch them from the steaming mouth of the oven in the corner of their backyard .
the shara family had maids and servants to do every kind of manual labor , but baking bread had been his mother 's hobby .
gabriel thought it was in her blood , passed down from her arab ancestors who had baked flat bread in outdoor ovens in palestine .
he sighed deeply at the memory of his mom .
it stunk that she could n't know about his work , and especially about the assignment gabriel was on today .
it was such an honor that the khan had thought of him for this job .
his mom would be so proud .
but she would probably never find out .
gabriel frowned in frustration and slowly chewed his bread , then glanced nervously out the window , watching for manuel .
gabriel was waiting in a large , newly-constructed house on a high slope at the north of cochabamba , one of many rented by the khan 's foundation .
no one else was here besides gabriel , and that fact was beginning to make gabriel sweat .
he swore silently as he took a swig of nescafe and stood up again to try to see over the concrete wall surrounding the house and down the hill where a car could be coming up the cobblestone street .
nothing .
the morning was silent , except for the sound of a few song birds flitting around the coral and white flowering trees in the neighborhood .
where was manuel ?
after the disastrous scene with alejo at pairumani and the subsequent rush to univalle , gabriel and stalin had made it just in time to the jorge wilstermann airport to meet benjamin and ishmael .
until the moment that the men were to check in for their flight to asuncion , where they would meet lzaro after his three-day sabbatical and regroup , only ishmael had known that gabriel would be staying behind .
as he clapped all his friends on the back good-bye , gabriel had casually explained that he had a contract for a job , and would meet them in asuncion after the weekend , inshallah .
allah willing .
okay , so gabriel would n't carry out the actual mission today , of course .
that was where manuel came in .
gabriel was the mastermind behind the whole thing , providing all the technical support .
the client who had hired him was going to pay him a cartload of money .
last night gabriel had stayed up much later than he should have , playing the violin much too fast while dreaming what he would buy for ambrin with the money .
he was thinking maybe a trip to europe for the honeymoon , because what girl did n't want to go to europe ?
in two more months , ambrin would graduate from nursing school and ishmael had said the wedding could happen after that .
the whole idea was enough to make gabriel downright delirious .
but he really did n't feel at peace .
of course he wanted to marry her !
but that was just the problem .
allah had given gabriel back his life that night in peshawar when his throat had been slit .
what right did he have to just marry ambrin and go on honeymoon to paris and live happily ever after ?
the world was full of people suffering , their daily lives full of misery .
a good example was the people of palestine , where his grandparents had lived before immigrating to bolivia .
he probably still had relatives there , whom he had never met , trapped in what many considered the world 's largest jail .
conditions there were abject poverty , as the palestinians had been forced off their land by the israelis and left with nowhere to go .
they belonged to no country , thus had no passport and could never leave that place to study overseas or work .
and in palestine , there was no work .
would n't allah be more than a little mad if gabriel just married ambrin and sat around drinking coffee with her in the mornings and laughing about all their kids ' cute little antics ?
the thought caused gabriel 's stomach to churn .
what if allah was n't pleased with his decision to live out his own desires and marry ambrin ?
what if he would n't let him into paradise ?
the taste of the fresh bread soured in gabriel 's mouth and he gulped down the last inch of coffee , then glanced once more at the window .
the brick-colored stones of the street were still silent .
he carried his dishes over to the sink , where later they would be washed by someone the khan hired to keep this place up .
he dropped the margarine and cream off in the refrigerator , carefully tied up the bread in its bag with a perfect little knot .
all the rooms of the huge house were absolutely silent , and the slapping of gabriel 's bare feet across the shiny black tiles echoed loud .
he pulled a cell phone out of his jean pocket and punched in the number for manuel , holding his breath .
he 'll probably answer and say that he is just pulling up to the gate any minute .
he would n't be late for this , would he ?
not after all the time we 've spent .
manuel choque 's family lived in a one-room hut of adobe out in the mountains around potosi his father had not been home since he was two .
somehow , while packed into a classroom of seventy kids out in the countryside , he 'd been picked out as having musical talent .
manuel had been given a full scholarship to attend the iranian-bolivian conservatory , founded five years back in cochabamba .
the short , swarthy seventeen-year old was now a beautiful classical violin player , as well as a devoted muslim .
when he was n't studying , he made a small amount of cash playing at concerts and parties .
he also took occasional jobs playing at upscale restaurants , who requested musicians from the conservatory .
today , beginning at 12:00 , manuel was to play at a luncheon .
on his way to the job , manuel was to stop here at the house , to take care of some vital matters with gabriel , who had prepped him for this day in several important meetings .
manuel was supposed to arrive at 9:30 .
as the cell phone kept ringing , gabriel pulled the phone away from his ear to check the time .
9:42 .
how could he be late , today of all days ?
there was so much to do .
manuel knew what today meant .
he 'd said he wanted his life to mean something .
sighing crossly , gabriel hung up and redialed .
as the ringing began again , he padded across the wide entryway into a room that lay behind a heavy wooden door .
he pushed it open and strode over to a thick table , glancing for the hundredth time that morning at his creations from the past twenty-four hours of work .
in the corner of the room , boxes of explosives and electronics were scattered , like a kids ' legos dumped out onto the tiles .
the contents of gabriel 's tool boxes were sprawled across the dusty black tile of the floor , signs that a madman/half-genius had been at work , putting together things from raw ingredients with the inspiration of an artist .
but the most important item for today 's mission was laid out on a crude wooden workbench , awaiting the arrival of manuel .
gabriel 's violin was also resting on sapphire velvet in its case on a clean work table .
he almost choked up , seeing the instrument and remembering last night , how he 'd played for ambrin and dreamed of europe .
i 've slept in so many strange places like this house , that are home to no one ; full of generic dishes , fresh instant coffee , and beds that are always mysteriously made up with clean sheets by some unknown hand .
but as long as i 'm with my violin , it feels like home .
things are n't so bad .
gabriel pressed his lips together as the cell continued ringing , now for the fifth time .
he felt a little faint as it occurred to him that manuel was not coming .
no !
how could he do this ?
how could he not understand how important this is ?
ok , yes , it 's a little scary .
but he said he was prepared !
everything depends on him !
gabriel slammed a fist into the wooden doorframe and leaned against it , breathing heavily .
manuel , how dare you chicken out on me !
there was n't much time , and he really needed to think .
the only way near the targets was as the musical entertainment , sent by the conservatory .
and the iranian-bolivian conservatory had lined up manuel , per gabriel 's instructions .
i ca n't believe this !
this is so important-i was so sure this is what allah wanted !
how can we let this opportunity slip away , just because manuel did n't show ?
we are so close !
but without him , there 's no way to get close enough to the targets .
gabriel blinked as his eyes fell upon the honey-colored wood of his violin , resting on top of sapphire velvet .
of course there 's a way .
i can replace manuel , tell them the conservatory sent me .
when they hear me play , there wo n't be a single complaint .
for a moment he felt a little woozy , the only thing holding him back a memory of deep , sapphire blue eyes framed by a lilac veil in a beautiful garden in pakistan .
but there really was no other way .
steeling himself , gabriel knelt , then prostrated himself on the ground , feeling dirty and unclean , knowing he had not washed himself properly for prayer .
if only allah could forgive him this one time , in this hour of greatest need .
unbidden , the scene from pairumani flashed through his mind : alejo , who had always cared about him , dead because he had refused to return to allah .
the bile of that betrayal threatened to rise up gabriel 's throat , along with crazy sorrow over losing his friend .
but greater than that was the concern that squeezed gabriel as he remembered his own betrayal : he had lied to the khan and let that girl go , out of pity .
she could cause all kind of damage to the cause of allah .
and allah knew all about it .
gabriel turned his hands up towards heaven , supplicating , then closed his eyes .
there was no more time .
he waited there on the floor , hoping for wisdom , feeling the burden of pleasing allah pressing him into the ground .
then he clenched his jaw , sure , and climbed to his feet , staring at the workbench .
i should never have trusted manuel to do this .
i will go .
with deliberation , gabriel unbuttoned his shirt and threw it on the floor , feeling the chill of the morning air on his bare chest .
time to get dressed .
the violin would be going with him , just as it always did to every place he called home .
this would n't be so bad .
28 fiery wara woke in the morning to luke-warm anise tea on a breakfast tray next to her bed .
she slit her eyes and saw alejo martir sitting cross-legged on the other bed in the hospital room , staring at nothing , wearing sweat pants under a blue plaid hospital gown .
she really did n't want to open her eyes .
alejo could n't see .
last night the doctor had ordered a lot of tests , but of course it was because of the gun shot to the head .
it was unbelievable he was even alive .
the only thing that convinced wara to sit up in bed was remembering that today she would get away from this place and be on her way back to see the martirs , then to the u.s. she tried to swing her legs over the side of the bed but her head spun like a ballerina practicing pirouettes .
her eyes felt like sandpaper and her nose still felt like it was stuffed with cotton .
thank god , dr. ortega said it was n't actually broken .
wara slapped at the cooling mug of tea on her tray and gulped it down , shuddering at the sickly sweet brew .
alejo heard the clatter of ceramic on the table and turned towards her , expression pained .
she needed to say something to him .
after all , this was good-bye .
or good riddance .
`` are you ?
are you ok ? ''
she asked tentatively .
of course he was n't ok .
he was blind and rather out of his mind .
wara frowned and slumped back into the headboard , remembering the silly grin of yesterday and alejo 's rambling about two something coming for us .
had it been two people ?
or aliens ?
alejo sighed and tried to smile towards her , but it was a sad smile .
`` the tests from yesterday show the swelling is down .
dr. ortega came in while you were sleeping .
he could n't believe it .
guess it 's supposed to take three or four days for the swelling to die down .
i still ca n't see though .
for that , he said just wait and see .
he said maybe my sight 'll come back .
from the way he said it , i think he 's just trying to be nice . ''
wara winced and forced herself to eat two round maria cookies from the white china plate next to the anise tea .
she was wiped out , barely keeping herself together .
what was she supposed to say ?
`` i 'm sorry this happened to you ? ''
`` it sure was awful watching your blood splatter everywhere , and i 'm sorry all your friends just sat by and watched ? ''
she had already talked with alejo a tiny bit last night , when just the two of them were left alone in the room after all the lab tests .
he remembered being shot and was obviously relieved that wara was alive and well .
wara filled him in on how stalin and gabriel had saved his life by dropping them off here at univalle .
there really was n't much else to say , was there ?
oh yeah .
`` i 'm going to lima , to see your family , '' she announced , watching his reaction while breaking another maria cookie up into tiny little bits .
`` tonight .
yesterday i found out the bus is leaving at six . ''
alejo 's face was impassive as he said he agreed with her decision .
wara slowly fed herself bites of cookie , willing the day to go by quickly .
they spent the next three hours watching tv .
or listening to tv , in alejo 's case .
the afternoon news began by the time a nurse brought a late lunch of white rice and chicken .
alejo fumbled with his fork at his plate , then froze and snatched the remote off his lap , stabbing buttons to turn up the volume .
`` look ! ''
he ordered , straining to hear the blaring voice of a female announcer .
wara turned her eyes to the small tv and nearly spit out a mouthful of sticky rice at the sight .
it was a building on cochabamba 's prado avenue , and it was burning .
alejo was leaning towards the television , knuckles squeezing the life out of the remote .
`` ?
at around 12:30 today , '' the announcer was saying .
`` there have been reports of an explosion , followed by these images of fiery destruction you are now seeing at the hotel diplomat . ''
the screen cut to the picture of burning building again , towering over the busy prado avenue , flames licking the clouds .
boiling black smoke poured towards heaven .
wara gaped at the tv , not able to believe that the sleek hotel she had passed hundreds of times was now this burning wreck .
noah 's parents had stayed there , but were scheduled to leave the night following the funeral .
wara felt sure they had n't stuck around a single minute longer than necessary .
on the news they said it was an explosion .
she cut her eyes over to alejo , whose lips had condensed into a grim , pale line .
the female announcer was back again , in a low-cut mauve suit coat and braided gold earrings that hung to her shoulders .
smoky eyeliner made her eyes pop from a flawlessly tan face with salmon-colored cheeks .
`` many of the hotel guests , '' she continued gravely , `` were able to escape the building through stairs at the back , and the hotel bar and restaurant seems to be the hardest hit .
while we will have to wait for a final count , there is sure to be a great number of lives lost in this tragedy .
initial estimates for the death toll are between sixty and seventy . ''
wara 's stomach clenched and she saw the silver fire again , spinning over her head as the bus hurdled down the ravine , taking noah with it .
she staggered to her feet , bumping the lunch tray and sending cool tea splashing over the rice .
i 've got to get out of here , she thought in a daze .
even the bus station was sounding preferable now than staying here and watching this .
the news reporter was receiving a note from an off-screen hand and continuing in all her mauve , low-cut glory .
she drew back and frowned at the small note , then raised dark eyes to the camera .
`` we are just receiving word that we have confirmation of the identities of two of the men who were killed in the hotel diplomat this afternoon .
their names will be released later , but we do know they are a deputy minister in israel 's ministry of defense and the israeli ambassador to the united states . ''
wara 's eyelids fluttered as alejo muttered under his breath .
he did not sound happy .
but the news story was n't over yet .
`` the israeli men had come to bolivia for negotiations with the government to reopen diplomatic relations .
bolivia and israel have had no diplomatic relations since 2008 , when president evo morales cut off relations over the actions of israel in the gaza strip during the 2008-2009 war .
israel has stated that the nature of the explosion at the hotel diplomat is believed to be consistent with that of a suicide bomber , '' the young news reporter faltered a moment , and then looked at the camera , puzzled , `` and that a team of experts from tel aviv will be sent to examine the remains of the scene , to arrive at their own conclusions about what happened here in this very tragic situation . ''
alejo 's face was drawn and severe .
he knew about this , did n't he ?
who else would do something like this ?
`` did you ?
did you do this ? ''
she stammered , eyes searching his even though she knew he could n't see her .
`` i know nothing about this , '' he stated each word slowly and clearly .
but it was obvious that something about the bombing had him upset .
wara lowered herself back onto her bed shakily .
she yanked the blanket over her head and curled up in the bed , trying to block out the sounds of the news reports about flames and death .
29 turquoise the bus station was packed , a writhing mass of bodies and battered suitcases .
wara filed outside through the appropriate gate , trying not to hyperventilate at the sight of the red double-decker bus she was supposed to board .
steady , she reminded herself .
this is n't the same bus .
this is your ticket to the martirs .
she climbed up the bus steps and easily found seat 22b , weak-kneed with relief that it was nowhere near where she and noah had sat on the bus from coroico .
wara smoothed her finger over noah 's ring , then leaned back into her seat and closed her eyes .
she had left alejo sitting morosely on the hospital bed .
he had refused to say anything else about the hotel diplomat , but the way his jaw was set announced that the news was n't good .
from somewhere inside wara 's pocket , her cell phone rang .
startled , she dug around and managed to pull out the small , cheap phone alejo had bought her at the hostal salta .
nazaret , calling to see what time i 'll be arriving , she assumed .
i 'm sure they 'll come to meet me .
`` hello ? ''
but it was n't wara 's friend 's voice that answered on the other end .
`` wara ? ''
the voice was male .
alejo ?
the only other person who has my number .
sigh .
`` wara !
where are you ? ''
his voice sounded urgent .
her heart sank .
was something wrong ?
could `` they '' be after her again ?
`` i 'm in the bus . ''
she covered the mouthpiece of the phone with her hand .
`` we 're about to leave . ''
`` wara , i , uh ?
. ''
alejo 's voice faltered , and for a second wara thought he might cry .
then he said what she never expected : `` i can see .
god made me see again . ''
wara nearly dropped the phone , astonished .
fumbling for words , she finally managed , `` you mean your vision came back ?
the doctor said it might .
that 's ?
great . ''
`` no , no it did n't just come back .
wara , god did this . ''
alejo 's voice was racing , and his sentences all ran together .
`` a woman , an old quechua woman , came here an hour ago , to pray for me .
she said she knows you , and you told her to pray for me . ''
`` doa filomena ! ''
heat spread down the base of wara 's neck .
`` yes !
well she came to pray for me , in quechua .
and then i blinked , wara-just the blink of an eye .
i opened my eyes , and there in front of me was this wrinkled old quechua lady in a pollera , praying her heart out for me .
i could see it all !
i could see her , the hospital room with the blue curtains -- -i can see again , wara . ''
wara gawked at the cheap gray phone in disbelief .
she heard a loud bang beneath her as the baggage compartment door was slammed shut .
any minute now , the long bus would be pulling out of the station and wara would be headed to lima .
`` wow , '' she muttered , but alejo did n't even seem to hear her .
his voice was still shaking , and he was obviously elated .
`` the other day , when i woke up , i saw something , '' he said .
`` someone .
he told me that he was sending two people for us , and we should go with them . ''
yeah , i remember that .
i thought you were crazy .
`` he talked to me about you , too , wara . ''
alejo hesitated , surely knowing that his chances of convincing wara of this were very slim .
`` there 's something god 's going to show us .
please come back . ''
this was alejo martir talking .
she did n't really like him , and she did n't really trust him .
but he was claiming to have had a vision from god , that two people were coming to show alejo and wara something .
and he had a miraculous healing to back it up .
`` but i ca n't just ?
i need to go to lima . ''
the excuse sounded weak in wara 's ears .
`` we 'll go to lima .
or you can go without me , wara . ''
alejo was insistent .
`` just please come back here now .
go tomorrow .
please . ''
wara felt a quiver as the bus began to back up , inching its way out of its narrow parking slot , curving backwards .
a crazy urgency filled her chest and she stood up , nearly smashing her head on the ceiling .
god is calling for you .
god is there , with alejo .
he gave him back his sight .
and he wants you to go .
`` i 'm coming back , '' wara said into the phone , then closed it tightly .
she staggered down the aisle , ignoring the curious glances of the other seated passengers .
there was just one thought ransacking her brain the whole time , speeding her heart into overdrive .
who is coming ?
wara exited the silver elevator on alejo 's floor at univalle , tiptoeing across the polished tiles .
the nurses ' station was silent and empty ; a phone rang insistently on the desk , but no one ran to answer it .
she inhaled raggedly and pushed open the heavy wooden door to the room she had left just a few hours before .
wara immediately noticed that doa filomena was gone , but two strangers clustered around the hospital bed .
one was a tall , lanky guy with broad shoulders and a narrow waist , buzzed sandy brown hair , and a hooked nose .
at the other side of the bed stood an attractive lady , older than wara , with two short black braids and fair skin .
they were both dressed in cheap clothes and black rubber flip flops with a healthy coating of dry mud .
as wara drew up next to them , the woman was pulling off the last of alejo 's bloodied bandages .
his hazel eyes flickered towards her as she entered , and she immediately knew he could see her .
that crazy grin spread across his lips as he said , `` i can see you , wara . ''
she gaped back at him , still not quite believing this .
`` you can really see .
did you tell dr .
ortega ? ''
`` well , i was about to , but then i got some more visitors .
i think it 's time for check out . ''
alejo 's eyes shone , and wara stared , speechless .
the two people who were making themselves at home in the room seemed as happy about alejo getting his sight back as he was .
the two just stood there , nodding and grinning as if there were nothing strange about a man getting his sight back by the power of god .
suddenly wara 's knees buckled .
there were two of them ?
`` there is n't much time . ''
the man with the wide shoulders and military haircut clapped alejo 's shoulder with slender fingers .
his eyes drooped slightly , but the corners of his mouth were lifted in a smile .
`` you must be wara . ''
wara nodded dumbly , still struck by the fact that there were two of them .
these were the messengers alejo had been told about ?
who were these people ?
`` we would like you and alejo to come with us , '' the strange man was addressing wara .
`` there 's someone who would like to talk with you .
alejo told me that both of you are believers in jesus ?
well then , rest easy .
the man who wants to see you is a believer as well , your brother .
but if you will come , we have to hurry .
there is n't much time . ''
the stout woman with the two braids turned towards wara , and she found herself looking into deep eyes the color of chocolate , rimmed at the edge with a touch of turquoise .
`` will you come with us ? ''
wara noted that her spanish was accented , as was the man 's .
something she could n't place .
instinctively , wara 's gaze flew to alejo .
it was because of him that she was standing here in the middle of this craziness .
he nodded at her and winked .
`` o-ok , '' she agreed in a daze .
`` i 'll go . ''
the two visitors grinned a little , and the woman motioned towards alejo .
`` quick , come see this ! ''
wara took a few steps forward and saw that she was pointing to the spot where alejo 's bandages had been , the wound from the bullet .
wara 's eyes popped to see that where alejo 's curls were shaved away there was only healthy , mocha-colored skin .
no trace of a scar .
`` is this the first time you 've seen a healing ? ''
the man asked , turning towards wara with that lazy half-smile .
she nodded mutely , and he nodded back at her kindly , as if to say , we all have to start somewhere .
`` alright , then .
time to change , '' the woman ordered , guiding wara forward with one hand on her back `` both of you , in the bathroom .
we paid about ten patients to keep the nurses busy , but we should hurry . ''
wara felt very hot , sure sweat was dripping down her backbone under her t-shirt .
into the bathroom ?
`` you , over here , '' ms. braids motioned wara towards one of the bathroom corners .
`` we 're going to get you into some clothes like ours , so we wo n't stand out on our little trip away from here . ''
glancing behind her , wara saw alejo pulling off his shirt to change in the opposite corner of the bathroom .
`` neither of you turn around , '' braids snickered at her .
`` face the wall . ''
wara obeyed .
at lightening speed , the short woman helped wara strip out of her old clothes and pull on faded sweat pants , a bulky , worn beige sweater , and black plastic sandals caked in mud .
with crisp efficiency , she then bundled wara 's hair on top of her head under a floppy-brimmed white hat with an attached black braid that tickled wara 's waist .
`` there you go , '' braids said .
`` no one will recognize you . ''
hands gripped wara 's shoulder and spun her around to face the men .
surreally , alejo was sporting a greasy baseball hat , ratty dress pants , and the ugliest homemade sweater wara had ever seen .
he did a double take , then blinked at her a couple times .
`` you look like mariana condori ?
she used to sell us fruit in the quillacollo market when i was a little kid , '' alejo said .
`` i used to have a crush on her . ''
`` i think it 's the braid . ''
wara bit her lip .
`` you look like a nice couple of working class folk , headed home after a long day at the market , '' the tall guy said .
he followed them out of the bathroom , stuffing their discarded clothing into his ripped plastic market bag on the way .
`` time to go .
grab anything you need . ''
wara did n't need anything .
she jogged after the rest of them , feeling the long fake braid slapping her back .
she followed the three others into the hallway , which was still eerily silent .
with each step , her cheap plastic sandals squished noisily across the tiles .
at the end of the hallway , a fat metal door blocked their path , secured with two golden padlocks .
`` keep your face turned to ten o'clock , '' said broad shoulders .
wara started , then noticed the security camera in the corner facing the door .
patients in bolivia were n't allowed to leave the hospital until the bill was paid in full , a process that could take a full afternoon of paperwork .
wara drew a deep breath and followed the others in approaching the door while facing the opposite corner , away from the camera .
out of the corner of her eye , wara saw braids extract something from her pocket .
she jammed it into the lock , wiggled , and the padlock released with a soft pop .
the other one yielded to her touch within another thirty seconds , and broad shoulders removed the two padlocks and slung them over a bar on the door .
`` and now we go out , '' he said , and wara followed him outside into the cool darkness of the andean night .
`` ok , take the stairs on your seats , '' braids instructed , and wara sat on the cold concrete steps , eyes wide , imitating the others as they scooted down three flights of stairs hidden from the front hospital patio by the concrete wall .
the murmur of conversation and screech of guard whistles rose around them .
wara pressed her lips together , really beginning to wonder why they were scuttling down a side stairway of univalle as if this were some sort of jailbreak .
`` stop , '' shoulders whispered , and wara froze in place next to alejo near the bottom stair .
he glanced at her in the darkness , and she saw a flash of red light reflect off his irises , then bounce on the concrete wall opposite the last stair .
a siren beeped , then hushed , and alejo 's eyes narrowed .
a police car ?
wara began wondering if she should be worried .
it could n't be here for us , right ?
`` they wo n't recognize the four of us together . ''
braids turned around , crouching on the stairs .
`` the police car is parked just around the corner . ''
she eyed wara firmly .
`` we 're just people who came here to visit sick uncle marco after a long day of work in the market .
we belong here .
on three , we all stand up and walk towards the street .
slowly .
one , two , three . ''
heart drumming in her chest , wara tried to rise quietly to her feet and follow alejo and the two , trying to imagine what someone might possibly be feeling who had n't just picked two padlocks and escaped from a bolivian hospital with two complete strangers .
they rounded to the front of the hospital and past two olive green police vehicles , red lights periodically flashing in the night .
no one tried to stop them as they passed through the hospital gate and onto the dimly lit street .
the two strangers broke pace next to dented white toyota corolla .
`` climb in , '' shoulders said .
`` you two newbies in the back . ''
wara slid in next to alejo , disturbed as she suddenly remembered that less than forty-eight hours ago alejo had been sprawled on the gray blanket , bleeding , in front of this very hospital .
it was very weird that he was now outside , leaving , in a car with total strangers .
`` so , you can see now , '' she eyed him nervously .
`` but are you sure you 're ok to leave the hospital ? ''
`` i 'm absolutely wonderful , '' alejo flashed that white smile that could only remind her of pastor martir .
`` god healed me-did you see ?
it 's as if i 'd never even been shot ! ''
wara had seen .
she leaned back into the gray vinyl seat , gripping the fraying edges as shoulders leaped into the driver 's seat and whipped away around the corner , braids riding shotgun .
are these real people , or could they actually be angels ?
wara 's thoughts were running wild as she stared at both of them in the front seat .
and where are they taking us ?
30 blond they ditched the white corolla at a gas station and continued on motorcycles , the mysterious strangers , wara , and a guy who an hour ago had been blind .
for thirty minutes they rode out of the city , then turned off the main road to follow a rugged path cut through a cornfield .
the motorcycles ' headlights cut through the heavy darkness of the cornfield under the stars .
just when wara was afraid she would n't be able to hang on to alejo 's back any longer , the wispy tendrils of chaff fell away quickly from their background against a slate blue sky .
they had arrived in a clearing , and in the pale moonlight wara could see a large , two-story house , built completely out of wood .
sometime along the way , the tall man with the hooked nose had introduced himself as tabor , and the woman as sandal .
tabor parked his motorcycle next to a giant eucalyptus tree near the house and he and sandal climbed off the bike in exact synchronization .
alejo pulled up next to them and turned the key , leaving the four of them in the shadows of the tree , in silence .
wara slid off the cycle first , hiding a wince at how her legs ached after having been bowed for so long .
alejo was still wearing that half-loony grin , ecstatic at being able to see again and having his vision come true .
he sobered a little at the sight of her pinched face , as if just now realizing she might possibly be scared half to death .
`` you 're brave , '' he said to her , startling her into a slight smile .
he waited for her , and the two of them walked side by side after sandal and tabor towards the looming house .
the rough , unvarnished door was made of a blond wood and had been left cracked open , as if expecting visitors .
wara shivered , staring at the house and the wood door .
`` come on .
i 'm sure he 's really anxious to meet you , '' sandal said , waiting for wara to walk past her through the door .
she met wara 's eyes with the hint of an encouraging smile .
the spacious room inside the house was a stark contrast to the blurry darkness outside .
this room was filled with light , blazing from a small chandelier formed from deer antlers .
in the far corner , several brown leather couches clustered under woven tapestries with the familiar designs of quechua children and snow-peaked mountains .
with a start , wara realized that there was a fifth person in the room , nearly camouflaged against a plain wooden wall to her left .
he was wearing brown slacks and a tan button-down shirt , with wool slippers .
he looked about sixty , a little paunchy , with balding brown hair and a bushy mustache .
ice blue eyes observed alejo keenly , then drifted over to wara .
`` welcome to my home . ''
the man 's voice was deep and calm .
there was no accent to the man 's spanish , despite his very un-bolivian appearance .
`` i am really very glad you came . ''
alejo remained standing close to wara , on a coral-colored rug in the center of the room .
`` hello , '' he said , hands loose at his side .
both men watched each other for a moment , sizing each other up .
then alejo asked , `` who are you ? ''
`` a very good question . ''
the older man 's cool blue eyes crinkled around the edges .
`` my name is rupert cole , and this is my home .
you have arrived at an ostrich farm . ''
mr. cole seemed to expect the surprised looks on their faces , and he chuckled .
`` if you decide to stay awhile , in the morning i could give you a tour .
but for now , my job is to make sure you are n't spooked and run away .
you already met sandal and tabor . ''
mr. cole looked over towards the door , but the two who had come to the hospital were already gone .
`` oh , they 'll be back , '' mr. cole assured wara in a tone that told her he had read her mind as she wondered if they had been angels and disappeared into thin air .
`` i 'm sure they just went to change out of those clothes .
i do n't have your names , '' mr. cole told them quietly .
`` i 'm alejo . ''
alejo held out his hand as mr. cole reached forward to shake it firmly .
`` it 's a pleasure to meet you , mr .
cole . ''
`` please call me rupert . ''
rupert 's eyes crinkled slightly again .
`` my father was mr .
cole . ''
rupert 's gaze fell on wara , and she slowly pulled the hat and fake braid off her head , leaving her own hair falling in disarray around her shoulders .
`` i 'm wara cadogan , '' she told him smally , shaking one thick , rough hand with her own .
rupert motioned them towards the brown leather couches .
`` please do n't run away just yet .
the reason you 're here is because i have a job offer for you , which i 'll tell you about when you 're ready .
but for now , i really want to help you , however i can .
i know things are a little up in the air right now , to say the least .
i work for an organization that can help . ''
wara followed alejo in taking a seat on the couch , across from rupert cole .
alejo regarded the older man calmly , face giving nothing away .
`` how do you know about us ? ''
he asked .
rupert 's cool blue eyes flashed .
`` i had a dream about you , alejo .
now before you laugh , it 's not like this happens all the time .
this is only the third time god showed me something in a dream . ''
another dream ?
wara crossed her arms and leaned back into the cool leather of the couch , feeling a little out of her element .
alejo did not appear at all fazed .
after all , he had known they would be coming here .
with tabor and sandal .
rupert was continuing .
`` so , what i saw was a man with a gun against his forehead .
the gun fired .
i assume that was you ? ''
alejo nodded a little uncomfortably , probably remembering the scene at pairumani .
`` and yet here you are , '' rupert waved one burly forearm , `` at my house , safe and sound .
i saw you being carried into the hospital , and a girl with dark hair and a star over her head was standing near the door , crying .
i saw the sign on the hospital : univalle .
it was as clear as day .
i was about to follow you inside , alejo , when a man grabbed my arm and said , 'they will look for him because of what happened to the bus . '
now in my dream , i understood exactly what he was talking about : the death road bus accident .
which may not have been an accident .
am i right ? ''
rupert 's calm gaze searched alejo 's face , which had grown very serious .
`` it was n't an accident , '' alejo admitted in a low voice .
`` how did you know ? ''
`` my brother robert cole works at the embassy , and took a call from a man who talked about that bus , and told him the american girl was still alive and with him .
in my dream i saw her with a star .
and here you are . ''
rupert nodded at wara .
`` wara .
aymara for star . ''
`` listen , '' he sighed and continued lowly , `` the truth is , the both of you are in a heap of trouble , and i believe i 'm supposed to help you .
from the little i know , you , '' he jerked a thumb in alejo 's direction , `` are in a lot of trouble .
you 've broken bolivian law and , i assume , have people from your organization after you .
and you , '' rupert looked at wara steadily but kindly , `` are in trouble because you know things you should n't know and have seen things that no civilian who was just riding a bus should have to see .
neither of you can just go back into your old lives , just show up in society as you were .
i think you both understand that . ''
wara felt hot tears prick her eyes .
rupert heaved a sigh and then said , `` there 's a reason i sent tabor and sandal to get you out of that hospital so quickly after my dream .
i was relieved to see your faces here in my living room , because i wondered if i would get to you in time .
come with me , both of you ; there 's something i have to show you . ''
alejo and wara wordlessly padded after rupert cole across the hardwood floor and through a darkened doorway .
the older man flipped on a light , revealing an office with blond wood walls and multiple low bookcases painted a very ugly burnt orange .
a tiny black computer desk sat under a picture window that really needed washing .
rupert plopped down on a chair in front of the extra-wide flat screen .
`` have a seat there , '' he told them quietly , motioning to two comfortable-looking plaid swivel chairs a few paces behind him .
they obeyed , and wara watched as rupert pressed his thumb against the blank computer screen and said a few numbers out loud .
immediately , the computer whirled and came to life , showing a background with a gray generic windows drawing and two small rows of icons .
sandal and tabor were back , having changed out of the tattered clothes from the hospital .
they waited in silence at the back of the office , arms crossed in front of their chests .
`` i apologize in advance , in case this is upsetting . ''
wara assumed rupert was talking to her .
`` i know about this video from my brother who works at the american embassy , robert .
it was posted on youtube , but of course has already been taken down .
but the embassy has a copy , i have a copy ?
who knows who else has this . ''
rupert scooted his chair to one side , glanced back at alejo with very serious eyes , and then the pixels of color on the wide computer screen came together in the image of a young guy with a reddish goatee wearing black against a background of a large black , white , and green stripe with a red triangle .
the flag of palestine , was the first thing wara thought as she frowned at the large flag .
then her blood ran cold as it registered that the lanky , blond guy standing there was wearing a long-sleeve black shirt underneath a layer of explosives and wires encasing his chest .
a suicide bomber .
the young man stood in front of the flag in a black woolen sailor 's cap , wearing the explosive vest in a very matter-of-fact fashion .
instead of brandishing a long machine gun , as was the typical image wara had seen of suicide bombers , he was gripping a violin over one shoulder , standing still for the camera .
wara started when she heard alejo fly out of his chair , biting back a loud curse .
his face was contorted , and he kicked at the swivel chair with one violent motion , clenching his fist .
`` gabriel , you idiot !
do n't do this to me ! ''
heart spiraling down to her toes , wara turned back to the man on the screen and realized that it was the same pale gabriel who had left her at the hospital .
she gripped the armrests of her chair tighter .
gabriel was repeating a prayer or verse from the quran in arabic .
when he finished , he looked into the camera almost curiously and said , `` first i would like to send a message to my parents .
dad , you were wonderful , and i thank you for your example .
you were always a faithful believer .
mom , i pray that allah will grant you the grace to continue to be a faithful believer despite all the trials .
please do n't be angry at me for this .
you know that allah will reward me with paradise , and i will be there , waiting for both of you .
mom , i will especially be waiting for your good cooking . ''
at this point , gabriel 's lips twisted into a wry smile , and his green eyes searched the camera .
`` i do this as my jihad against the cause of injustice , against those who maim and kill god 's people in palestine and around the world . ''
gabriel looked at his violin a moment , reflectively , and then continued , `` i am not a tough warrior or a soldier .
but with this my weapon , my talent that allah has given me , i fight for his cause in the world and thus win his favor for paradise . ''
gabriel quoted a verse from the quran , in spanish : `` allah has bought from the believers their lives and their money in exchange for paradise .
thus , they fight in the cause of allah , willing to kill and get killed .
such is his truthful pledge in the torah , the gospel , and the quran - and who fulfills his pledge better than allah ?
you shall rejoice in making such an exchange .
this is the greatest triumph . ''
`` no , no , no ! ''
alejo was back in his chair , leaning forward , pleading .
he slammed one fist into his knee .
`` gabo , do n't do this ! ''
but of course everyone realized that he already had .
`` i have always been a faithful muslim , '' gabriel 's eyes bored into theirs from the screen , `` except for a few indiscretions where i allowed my heart to get ahead of my faithful service to allah .
for that , i offer my life now in jihad , against the injustices of the world and against the unrighteousness in my own heart .
i pray allah will purify me by fire and accept me into paradise . ''
wara struggled to inflate her frozen lungs .
had gabriel thought he disobeyed god by letting her and alejo go ?
`` i know that certain people will be very ticked off that i did this . ''
gabriel 's mouth twisted wryly again , and he lowered the violin to his side .
`` but please know that i really cared about you all , all of my friends , and am thankful to have enjoyed so many good memories together .
i 'll miss the brownies , the trips , all our conversations over coffee .
but then again , i may not miss them at all .
i think that in paradise all those things will fade into memory , because i 'm sure that life there is pretty good . ''
gabriel lowered his lashes , then looked up and started to walk towards the camera .
`` this was a very strange video of this type , i know .
i have always been a very quirky guy .
i 'll be waiting for all you guys , so please do n't disappoint me , ok ? ''
he disappeared to the side of the screen , leaving for one moment the view of the huge palestinian flag , hanging in silence .
then the video was cut , and the only thing visible was an advertisement from youtube .
alejo was bowed over onto his knees , sobbing .
wara was stunned to see stern alejo sitting there , crying like a baby .
rupert obviously had expected his .
`` i thought that you might know him , '' he said in a gravelly voice .
`` of course , this is what happened to the hotel diplomat this afternoon .
i also have a video taken from a camera phone found in the rubble , of the actual detonation , which you will not be allowed to see . ''
wara sucked in a deep breath , fighting nausea .
`` the embassy was n't really investigating anything after the phone call you made , not yet .
but with these videos , the investigation starts for real .
the u.s. , bolivia , and israel will be combing every corner to find out who the man in the video is , and who is connected to him . ''
it could have been wara 's imagination , but rupert 's blue eyes seemed a little misty and his face wore the look of a man who had lost many comrades in his day .
`` i -- -i think i need to go to lay down , '' wara stammered , standing up shakily and facing sandal .
`` can ?
is there a room here where i can sleep ? ''
`` of course , '' sandal understood perfectly .
`` i 'll take you to your room .
we will all be here tomorrow . ''
feeling faint , wara left the office and the sound of alejo 's tears .
31 plaid alejo woke the next morning with a cool breeze rustling the gauze curtains and caressing his face .
he was lying on his stomach on a single bed with thick wool blankets in a room with walls that smelled of cedar .
his limbs felt like lead and his heart torn to pieces , but he forced himself to sit up on the edge of the bed and breathe .
the man wara loved was dead , thanks to alejo gabriel had blown himself to pieces in jihad , trying to make allah love him .
alejo still remembered the scoffing tone of his friend 's voice in the delivery truck when alejo told him his decision about jesus : `` the quran tells us everything we need to please god .
and i 've been doing it all .
we are the best of the best , che .
why would we need some person to take away our sins ?
we are serving allah every day .
we 're not unbelievers who do n't follow his laws .
he 's got to accept me . ''
what better way to earn allah 's favor than as a suicide bomber , making the ultimate sacrifice to do allah 's will ?
except man ca n't earn god 's favor .
alejo resisted the urge to sink back down onto the bed , depressed .
only the savior of the world can atone for the sins of men .
everyone is dead , alejo thought .
my life is a mess .
god , i ca n't think about anything but wara 's tortured eyes as she misses noah , or gabriel , shouting allah akbar and pulling the detonation cord .
alejo groaned and leaned forward onto his knees .
last night , after alejo had composed himself , rupert told him that , from the camera phone video , it was clear that gabriel had entered the restaurant in a tuxedo , apparently hired to play the violin in the restaurant of the hotel diplomat during lunch .
he had simply walked over to the table of the two israeli diplomats while playing a violin piece and detonated the explosives .
the early estimates were in favor of a death toll of over seventy .
i have to do something , or i 'm going to go crazy in here .
alejo stood up suddenly .
tabor was about his size and had left him a mound of clean clothes on top of a cedar chest in the corner .
alejo got dressed and padded out of his room on bare feet , towards the bathroom on the first floor where he and wara had been given rooms .
leaving the bathroom , alejo could hear the soft clink of silverware coming from the kitchen , around the corner from the end of the hall .
he found rupert cole , along with tabor and sandal , breakfasting on pancakes and coffee .
rupert was lounging in a worn , khaki bathrobe with the same woolly slippers on his feet .
sandal was wearing a tight red sweat suit that no one over twenty-five should be caught dead in , covered in jewels and large silver letters .
her jet black hair was tied back in a messy ponytail , dark circles under her eyes .
she slowly nursed a chipped mug of black coffee , eyes flitting to alejo with a bare acknowledgement of his entrance .
alejo immediately pegged her as not a morning person .
tabor wore running gear and seemed chipper and alert .
he nodded at alejo and gulped the last of something that looked like a protein energy shake .
`` ru really wants you to stay , '' tabor said , languid eyes twinkling .
`` he made you pancakes .
the guy is a great cook . ''
alejo slid into a chair across the table from tabor , where an empty place setting seemed to be waiting .
he assumed that tabor and sandal must be some kind of agents in the organization rupert worked with , the `` job offer '' he had mentioned last night .
if he had to guess , he would say sandal was from iran or iraq , and tabor from israel .
rupert ducked into the kitchen and reappeared with a glass carafe of french press coffee , which he emptied into alejo 's mug .
`` good morning .
i assume you like strong coffee , '' he said in an even tone , then placed a platter covered with tinfoil in front of alejo .
`` the ones with nuts are banana mango .
then there are the german chocolate ones , too .
honey and butter are right there . ''
`` wow .
thanks . ''
alejo looked up at him and offered a tight smile .
he was actually glad that rupert was holding off on the job offer until after breakfast , because alejo felt like dirt .
`` i 'm impressed .
is wara up yet ? ''
`` no , she 's still sleeping , '' sandal croaked , looking up groggily from her coffee , `` which i would still be if certain people had n't insisted i go running with them . ''
tabor scoffed .
`` i do n't know why you did n't just stay in bed .
you only ran like a hundred meters with me , anyway . ''
`` you know i do n't do mornings . ''
sandal glared at him , then forked a bite of pancake rather violently .
she speared alejo with her bleary gaze , about to speak when rupert dumped two pancakes on alejo 's plate and clapped him on the shoulder .
`` you need to eat , '' he said calmly , but the tone left no doubt it was an order .
alejo reluctantly forced himself to eat and gulp down coffee .
when he had emptied his plate , rupert scraped his chair back and said , `` come walk outside with me . ''
glancing towards the hall and still seeing no sign of wara , alejo nodded curtly .
`` let me get some shoes . ''
`` i suppose i should change out of my bathrobe , '' rupert sighed , glancing down at his plaid pajama pants , fuzzy robe , and slippers .
he shuffled up the winding wood staircase , where alejo assumed her slept .
by the time alejo had retrieved his sandals and washed up a little , rupert was waiting outside the door on a narrow stone path that cut through the grass of his lawn .
beyond the lawn , a dusty area began where rings of tall barbed wire fences circled ostrich pens .
`` this is where you live ? ''
alejo shoved hands in his pockets as the two of them fell in step on a slow walk around the lawn .
`` this is my home , yes , '' rupert said thoughtfully .
`` i 'm gone of course , often , for my work . ''
`` your brother works at the embassy .
and you live here , in the bolivian countryside , and have an ostrich farm .
why would a gringo want to live all the way out here ? ''
rupert scoffed and raised one eyebrow .
`` do n't let my pale face fool you .
my parents were american , but i never applied for my american citizenship after the age of eighteen . ''
`` where did you grow up then ? ''
rupert grinned and raised one fuzzy eyebrow at alejo .
`` would you be at all shocked if i told you my parents were missionaries in morocco ?
the man you are looking at is one hundred percent moroccan , heart and soul . ''
alejo looked over at him and whistled .
`` wow .
a missionary kid .
morocco .
it 's a very nice country .
so , would you be at all shocked if i told you i 'm a pastor 's son ? ''
rupert 's calm eyes did , indeed , widen .
he recovered quickly and cleared his throat .
`` uh , yes , actually , i would ! ''
a grin spread across his face .
`` we make a fine pair , hmm ? ''
`` yeah , well you at least have been following the path of your parents .
the example my parents gave me when i was young was not one i wanted to follow . ''
there was a long pause , and then rupert said , `` i have n't always been on the straight and narrow path , walking in the light .
i 'm sure you would n't be shocked if i told you i used to be cia .
i worked at the top levels for ten years , with the cia for a total of twenty-five years .
i was mean , ornery , and i would do anything to get the job done .
by the time i was fifty i was on my third wife . ''
alejo pressed his lips together , staring straight ahead .
`` ten years ago , the lord found me and called me into his kingdom -- -just like that , from right in the middle of the places of power of the kingdom of this world .
i became his disciple-and everything changed .
i had a new boss , and i could no longer do whatever the powers-that-be above me ordered me to do , when it was against the orders of jesus .
you know what i mean ? ''
alejo nodded , seriously .
`` well , alejo , i realized i could n't continue in the cia and follow jesus .
when i emptied out my retirement account to give to the poor , my third wife , ellie , left me .
so now , here i am , alone and with all the time in the world to do what the lord brings my way .
for now , it is this organization . ''
rupert 's voice drawled lazily , but his tone was intense .
they had reached the far corner of the property now , and rupert led them into a small grape arbor .
he lowered himself with a grunt onto the grass under the tangled mass of vines , and alejo followed him , sitting cross-legged on the cool ground .
he now knew about rupert 's past : missionary kid from morocco , cia , three failed marriages .
what he did n't know was what was going on now , in the present .
what am i doing here ?
`` i guess you brought me here for the recruitment speech , '' he said , measuring rupert with his eyes .
rupert smiled lazily .
`` i guess i did .
like i said , i want to help you .
but the fact you were recommended to me in a dream makes me think god brought you here for the recruitment speech . ''
alejo scrunched up his face , surprised by the thought .
`` we 're called ci , '' rupert told him .
`` short for cole , inc , the shipping company here in morocco my grandfather owned and gave to me .
we 've transformed the company into something a little different .
the agents who work with us are called lukes .
there 's a verse in the bible we believe in , and it says , 'the spirit of the lord is upon me , because he has anointed me to preach good news to the poor , to bring liberty to the captives . '
we believe in that , bringing god 's kingdom to earth . ''
so rupert wants me to work with him and become a luke .
`` most of us in ci may not have come by our special skills in the best of ways , '' rupert continued explaining .
`` but now that we belong to jesus we want to use our talents to obey him , not give power and riches to the kingdoms of this world .
we work to save those who are in prison or in danger for their belief in jesus or their defense of human rights . ''
alejo 's temple throbbed and he felt himself grimacing .
of course , this was what he wanted to do .
when he worked with the prism , had n't it been to bring justice to the world , to help those in need ?
he could do this , work with rupert in ci .
but now ?
now alejo barely even knew who he was .
so much had changed .
`` i 'm ?
really messed up , rupert .
what you 're saying is all i want to do .
but i need help . ''
`` i know , '' rupert said simply .
`` these are hard times .
what would you say if we prayed , right now ? ''
alejo blinked .
`` ok. '' when rupert had finished praying , alejo felt too weak to get up just yet .
`` i just need some time ? ''
he started to say hoarsely , but rupert was already heading out of the vineyard .
`` take a half-hour , '' he said , eyes sparkling .
`` then i 'll be back .
we have plenty of time to discuss details about ci later .
there is one thing we have to talk about now , though .
it 's going to be good , son . ''
alejo could n't be sure , but he could have sworn that , just before rupert turned to go , he had winked .
the half hour alone under the grape leaves was intense , and alejo prayed and thought , trying to get his bearings .
he felt so relieved , being forgiven by jesus .
but there were so many things that were still messed up , other people he had hurt .
right now , i 'm thinking mainly of wara and my family .
an image of noah hearst 's very pale , grieving parents flashed through his mind and he sighed .
there did n't seem to be much he could ever do to make it right with them .
alejo closed his eyes , listening to the sound of songbirds in the fruit trees outside the grape arbor .
fallen grapes fermenting in the sun gave off the essence of sweet red wine .
rays of sunlight filtered through the leaves and warmed his face .
i can see .
it amazed him again , and he remembered the despair he had felt in univalle , when he woke up and realized everything was black .
alejo thought about the cool steel of the khan 's gun against his temple , the hurt of betrayed love in the pashto man 's red eyes as he stared alejo down .
he could n't remember the actual shot , but he was sure it should have been lethal .
god had let him live , and brought him here , to this place , to another follower of jesus who seemed to understand everything he was going through .
a dry crunching sounded outside the canopy of grape leaves ; the hanging greenery parted , and rupert ducked inside , downing something from an ancient olive-green thermos with golden paisleys .
another red plaid thermos was in his other hand , which he held out towards alejo .
`` coffee , '' he said briefly , taking another swig .
`` you might as well know , i 'm an addict . ''
`` thanks . ''
alejo unscrewed the lid of the thermos and took a drink of the bitter liquid .
rupert really did make strong coffee .
another perk of working with him -- -along with the fact that he had dreams of the future and seemed to hear directly from god .
rupert downed more coffee , then stiffly sat down in the grass at a comfortable distance from alejo .
`` ah , what are we doing here hiding out under the leaves and sitting in the muck like kindergartners ? ''
alejo grinned .
`` i have a slew of chairs over on the porch .
but it is kind of nice in here , is n't it ?
all shady ? ''
rupert settled in a little , then faced alejo squarely .
`` the time is coming to ask all your questions , but i want you to work with me .
if you accept , i would like to propose a time of discipleship here , at the farm .
what that means is learning to follow jesus , to be a disciple .
we would spend three months together , along with the other guys who come in and out of here , and i 'd teach you everything i 've learned over the years .
do you think i would drive you batty ? ''
`` maybe . ''
alejo paused .
`` but i need it .
i 'm kind of starting from scratch .
even if you find out later i do n't meet your requirements to work in ci , i think i really need to stay here .
since you 're offering . ''
he felt his mouth tip into a lopsided smile .
rupert seemed pleased .
`` i 'm offering .
after the three months , you would go on an exploratory trip with some of my lukes , to open your eyes a little to what we do and help you decide if you want to join .
i want you to know , too , that we can help your family .
i 'll tell you about that later , some very nice options of places they can settle .
i would love to meet them .
but , about wara ? ''
`` i really messed her life up , too , '' alejo muttered .
his relief was intense at the idea of someone helping him resettle his family and wara somewhere safe .
`` can you get a new id and passport for her , too ?
we could ask her where she 'd like to live , maybe close to my family ? ''
`` you saved her life . ''
rupert held up his hand to stop alejo .
`` and , sending her to live with your family is n't what i wanted to talk to you about .
last night in my office , you mentioned her a lot .
you talked about how she has great linguistic skills , makes even-keeled decisions under pressure , and has good tactical decisions -- -for a civilian , you understand .
so , son , i was thinking that wara should also stay here with us .
we need more female lukes , and with her coloring she would be able to pass as native in many places that a lot of the other women ca n't .
wara could work with us , '' rupert repeated , `` and you can help train her . ''
alejo felt his jaw drop .
`` umm , i do n't ?
i do n't ?
sir . ''
he paused , trying to think of something rational to say .
`` she does n't know anything about ?
all this kind of life . ''
`` neither did you , when you started , '' rupert shrugged , taking a large swallow of coffee .
`` she can learn .
listen , son .
when we prayed today , we talked about god 's forgiveness .
what i wanted to talk with you about now is the issue of forgiveness from others who you have offended .
wara is a woman who has been hurt .
because of you .
unintentionally , but i still believe that god would have you make it right . ''
this was a totally unexpected turn of events .
he had envisioned his new connection with rupert helping his family and wara to a safe location , to happily start their lives over .
not wara in close proximity to him , who she did n't care for at all .
besides , being close to him was dangerous .
`` alejo , i have a sort of penance for you , '' rupert continued explaining to a dumbfounded alejo .
`` not to be forgiven by god , but to make things right and restore what you have destroyed .
because of what happened , wara 's safety , work , and the man she loved were taken away .
if wara joins ci , you can protect her and watch out for her .
you can help her use her talents for the kingdom , by sharing what you know so she can work with us .
and you can try to give back what you took away : the man that she loved . ''
now alejo truly gaped .
what ?
`` i 'm sorry .
i do n't know what you 're talking about . ''
`` i 'm assigning you to love wara , and be the man that she loves in return .
i want you to take noah 's place . ''
alejo cringed .
he swallowed against a throat that was dry like sandpaper , then sputtered .
`` uh , that is a very bad idea .
wara ca n't stand the sight of me .
i 'm the man who blew up her bus and killed noah . ''
alejo felt sure that rupert would see the craziness of what he had just suggested .
`` yes , you did tell me about that , '' rupert remarked calmly , seemingly unfazed .
`` this is what i propose .
it 's pretty simple .
i think we should explain all this to wara-about ci , the exploratory trip , and see if she accepts .
if she feels called to join and agrees to go on the trip , then it 'll be all settled .
you will do what i say , train her , and be the man she loves . ''
alejo had to really work to compose himself enough to speak .
`` sir , i would like her to work with you , because i think she would be good at it , and i know she can learn .
i 'd feel a lot better knowing i could keep an eye on her .
but i 'm 100 % sure she would never accept , not if she knows i 'm here .
and would be her trainer ! ''
alejo could just see the look on her face now : repulsion at the idea .
`` it 's never going to happen , '' he repeated .
why could rupert not see this ?
`` she might accept being a luke , but she would never love ?
.me . ''
rupert waved one hairy hand at him .
`` it 's really not that complicated , alejo , '' he continued slowly , as if explaining something to a small , particularly dull child .
`` who was noah to wara ?
he was a man who loved the lord .
he was her best friend .
he loved her unconditionally .
you can do all this . ''
alejo 's mouth opened , then snapped shut .
he unscrewed the lid to his thermos with a vengeance and took a long gulp of hot , strong coffee .
`` besides , '' rupert was pressing on , `` i 've spent quite a few years in my day around guys like you .
i can read you pretty well , even if no one else can .
i know you 're interested .
in her . ''
coffee spewed from alejo 's lips onto his muddy knees as he nearly choked .
`` i think you 're already a little attracted to her .
c'mon , i 'm not asking you to crawl on your hands and knees from here to the vatican with a belt of nails around your waist , or live for a year on locusts and honey .
just a little penance , a little making things right .
you 'll be fine . ''
rupert heaved himself up from the ground with a loud crack , clumps of dirt clinging to his worn jeans .
alejo was still stunned , and he wiped coffee from his chin with one sleeve , watching rupert warily .
`` we should tell her tonight , at the latest , '' rupert said , walking towards the edge of the arbor .
apparently noticing alejo draw back like a deer in the headlights , rupert turned around and crossed his arms , annoyed .
`` i did n't mean we should tell her tonight that you 're proposing marriage !
jeepers !
for that , i 'm giving you some time .
all i meant was that we should talk with her about ci and see what she says . ''
alejo got up from the muddy grass , rather shakily .
`` you said that wara was in the dream you had , did n't you ? ''
he asked , feeling a headache coming on .
`` she was . ''
rupert seemed much too delighted .
`` god sent her to me , too , and i think we are just beginning to discover the reason . ''
with another wink , rupert disappeared into the yard , leaving alejo alone , standing in the arbor .
with a deep groan , alejo shoved his hands in his pockets and began walking towards the house .
32 white on wara 's fifth day at the ostrich farm , she allowed herself to admit that rupert 's pancakes really were delicious .
that morning , he had cooked up one pile with fresh raspberries and cream , and the other with bittersweet chocolate and dulce de leche .
the day before it had been orange butterscotch and strawberries with a wine sauce .
wara still could n't remember what she had had for breakfast the first morning she had come here ; it was all still a blur .
the night had been filled with violent dreams about noah and gabriel , and wara had woken up late , without the strength to talk to anyone .
on day number two , at night , rupert had sat down , with a very silent alejo , and presented the crazy plan in which she , a flabby linguist from montana , would become part of the organization rupert worked with , called ci .
she truly could n't imagine she would be any use ; she did n't know anything about all this spy-style business .
but it seemed obvious that god wanted her here , and honestly , she did n't have the strength at the moment to spend hours analyzing why .
day number four was the day she had sat in rupert 's office and told him she would go on a trip to learn more about ci .
when she informed rupert that the answer was yes , she had been sitting in one of the plaid swivel chairs in rupert 's office , trying not to look at the blank computer screen where she had seen gabriel 's suicide video .
rupert stood behind alejo 's swivel chair , and his teeth flashed in a grin under his bushy mustache as he punched alejo in the shoulder .
`` so it begins ! ''
he crowed , obviously quite pleased .
`` there you go , che . ''
alejo smiled weakly at rupert 's words .
rupert walked over to wara and clasped her hand , shaking it warmly .
`` i swear i will take care of you like my own daughter .
of course , you can still change your mind after your exploratory trip , but if you 're who i see when i look at you , i know you wo n't . ''
now it was wara 's seventh day at rupert 's little ostrich farm , and tomorrow she would be leaving to fly to lima .
she would spend a few days with the martirs , then fly home to bozeman to spend three months with her family .
alejo would go to see his family after wara left them , and help them get settled in a new location that he and rupert had worked out .
then alejo would come back here to the ostrich farm to stay for the time until their exploratory trip .
i need time to heal , wara thought as she leaned back into one of rupert 's chocolate leather sofas and stretched her bare feet out on the coffee table .
her laptop was open next to her on the couch and she was alone in the living room , listening to the sound of noah 's voice .
until a few days ago , she had n't remembered that her laptop contained two albums of music noah and eduardo sejas had recorded in cochabamba at a studio .
maybe it was n't professional quality , but to wara noah 's voice was beautiful .
a door scraped across the wood of rupert 's living room and she saw the older man and alejo standing in the office .
`` wara , dear , could you come in here for a minute ? ''
rupert was grinning , as if he and alejo were in the middle of a joke .
alejo , however , had the pained grimace of a man who had just escaped the dentist after a root canal .
what plots had they been hatching in rupert 's office ?
wara reluctantly muted noah mid-song and slid her bare feet to the floor .
she headed towards the office , where rupert motioned towards a swivel chair .
`` we 've already covered a few things for your upcoming trip , '' he addressed both of them .
`` and the rest we 'll talk about later , after you 've had more time .
wara 's flight 's leaving tomorrow , though , so it 's about time to put the finishing touches on her passport .
of course i have to make your docs with different names , since you 're both supposed to be dead .
now , '' rupert fought off a yawn and leaned into the swivel chair with a heavy squeak , `` i 've got you down as paulo . ''
he fixed his eyes on alejo , who grimly nodded .
`` paul , the man who , like you , was healed from blindness by god .
now what about you , wara cadogan ?
are you ready to change names ? ''
she had known rupert was going to ask her this ; he had warned her at breakfast this morning .
after pancakes , she had taken a walk and thought : if alejo is paul , then i am peter .
once again she had seen noah beside her on the bus , holding her hand with eyes full of grace and saying those words : you 're back .
at the seaside , after jesus rose again , he brought peter back .
peter swore with a curse he did n't know jesus and jesus forgave him .
jesus brought him back .
unfortunately , peter was not a good name for women .
thankfully , wara knew quite a few languages .
`` i 'm thinking about ?
petra , '' she said carefully , trying out the sound of the name on her lips .
`` you know , greek for 'rock ' . ''
rupert 's eyes glowed .
`` it 's good , '' he said simply .
`` i love it . ''
the living room was dim as they left rupert 's office , closing the door on him as he powered up his spy computer to make some skype calls .
a single , white porcelain lamp with a scuffed shade was shining from the corner next to the sofas .
tabor and sandal were nowhere in sight .
preferring to say goodnight here rather than in the pitch black hallway on the way to their rooms , wara turned towards alejo , the words on her tongue .
but alejo was gone .
then she noticed him crouching on the floor in front of her , head bowed towards the floor .