`` awesome surprise to find you guys here , too , '' noah smiled at wara and nazaret .
wara swallowed hard .
`` yeah , i ?
ca n't believe it . ''
the surprise of having him show up here in the plaza in coroico , just like that , had still not worn off .
she had to think of something normal to say .
`` i remember ?
last week your parents were supposed to come , right ? ''
the last time wara ran into noah at the martirs , he had mentioned his parents were going to come to bolivia .
his parents were wealthy and did not believe in god .
they were really not happy their son had decided to study social work and come to one of the poorest countries in the western hemisphere .
hurt glinted in noah 's eyes when he told her they were thinking of stopping by cochabamba .
briefly .
on their way to a beach resort in brazil .
now , noah set his jaw and looked away .
`` nope .
they did n't come .
decided they just could n't do it .
hotels here are n't up to their sky high standards . ''
noah quickly changed the subject .
`` we 're going to rent a jeep to drive us down to the waterfalls tomorrow .
you guys want to come with us ? ''
but wara 's heart was going crazy .
noah should despise her after how she 'd acted the other day , but he was still smiling .
and so ?
nice to her .
could it really just be a coincidence that she and noah had both showed up here , at the same place , at the same time ?
she did n't think so .
maybe there was a chance noah could love her .
because maybe god was behind this .
the idea nearly made her cry .
she knew nazaret would n't be thrilled about hanging out with the guys all day tomorrow ; noah was already like a brother to her , always over at the martirs ' wrestling with her little siblings or mowing the lawn .
and wara did n't think she was ready to hang out with noah yet .
she needed time to think about this .
to squash the hope that right now was blooming to life .
`` uh ?
thanks .
but we should just let you guys have guy time , '' wara said .
`` yeah , tomorrow wara and i were going to spend some time alone , '' nazaret grinned at them .
`` set our priorities straight .
mediate .
all that . ''
`` suit yourselves , '' tobias waved them away , pretending to be offended .
`` your loss .
you miss seeing us without our t-shirts in the waterfall . ''
tobin , ever the clown .
wara could barely compose herself enough to cheek-smooch all the guys goodbye and make it back to the hotel .
there must be some reason god was doing this .
and it had to be something good ?
right ?
7 white plaster alejo shut the metal door of the orange three-story house he shared with gabriel and benjamin and stepped out onto the lazy peaceful street only a thursday morning in coroico could deliver .
and only in coroico could one have a view such as alejo and the guys had every time they stepped out their front door .
their front steps lowered to a street with a steep downward slope , rushing down the mountain and leaving a breath-taking view of jade mountains peaks and scarlet flowering trees in the distance .
their street was just a narrow lane of stone stairs , really , used only for foot traffic .
a corridor of tangerine and violet flowers grew wild in the dirt , forming a living rainbow along the center of the staircase .
gabriel sat on the second step from the top , elbows propped on his knees , staring at the clouds misting up over the trees in the distance .
he wore a turtleneck , as he had every day since the attack in pakistan a month ago .
his pale green eyes reflected the weak rays of the early morning sun , glazed , vacant , and bleak .
alejo sighed and covered the few steps to slide down onto the cool concrete step next to him .
`` 'morning , '' alejo croaked , then cleared his throat .
`` i think we 're late to breakfast . ''
gabriel half-turned towards him and parted his lips , tried to think of something to say , then gave up .
his gaze went back to the mist in the distance .
`` you sure you want to come along this weekend ? ''
alejo pressed his lips together .
`` you can take more time off , you know . ''
after alejo got the call from ishmael in peshawar , the twenty hour trip from here to gabriel had seemed to take forever .
gabriel had recovered well since that day , but the playfulness seemed to be gone from his eyes .
most of his free time was spent praying or playing really melancholy music on the violin his parents gave him .
`` i know , '' gabriel nodded .
he swatted at a mosquito that was whining its way around his ear .
`` i rested a lot last week though , at mom 's house .
she about had a heart attack when you called her and told her about the skiing accident in france .
stupid person who installed barbed wire on the slopes . ''
his mouth twitched and some of the old sparkle glowed in gabriel 's eyes .
`` i mean , what a freak accident , right ?
running into wire at neck level while skiing ? ''
now even alejo almost laughed .
that 's where gabriel 's family thought he went when he disappeared with his friends for weeks at time : skiing in france .
it felt good to smile .
gabriel seemed happy thinking about his mom , and the week at her house had fattened him up a bit .
`` it 's just , i feel weird , you know , '' gabriel sighed , still batting at the stupid mosquito .
`` like i should n't be here .
i mean , i see how pretty everything is here in coroico , and i am so happy to be alive .
but i should be dead . ''
one of his hands drifted to his throat and gabriel 's adam 's apple bobbed .
`` god gave me back my life , but now i feel that my life has to totally belong to him , you know ?
and what if i do n't do what he wants ?
what if i mess up ? ''
gabriel paused , and wrinkled his nose .
`` does that make any sense ? ''
`` god would n't save your life just so you can feel all tortured about it , '' alejo frowned .
`` he saved you because he loves you , not so you can be his slave the rest of your life . ''
gabriel looked at alejo , one sandy eyebrow raised .
`` yeah , but imagine how ticked off he 'll be if after he saved my measly little life i sit around living for myself instead of doing everything i can to serve him . ''
`` did ishmael talk to you about all this ? ''
alejo asked , suddenly feeling cold as he remembered the trip with the khan to the tribal area .
`` he 's not trying to tell you to go spend the rest of your redeemed life as a taliban fighter or something , right ? ''
`` no ! ''
gabriel actually smiled now and stood up , dusting off his sweat pants .
`` can you see me with all those tough guys , wearing a turban ?
i ca n't even grow a beard ! ''
alejo had to laugh at the image of gabriel wielding an ak-47 and smoking opium in the middle of the desert .
`` who knows ? ''
gabriel put his hands on both hips , and stretched a little , leaning to one side .
`` whatever allah has for me might even be good . ''
`` and it might even include ambrin . ''
gabriel scoffed , but seemed quite pleased by the thought .
`` let 's go over to the caf , '' he grinned .
`` i 'm starving . ''
gabriel and alejo joined the rest of the team in the caf attached to the side of the modest kory tours office , which at present was sealed shut by a padlocked , roll-down metal door until office hours began .
the tour agency was their cover here in coroico , keeping them all employed in the eyes of this lazy tropical town .
benjamin also worked as a doctor in a little clinic sponsored by the government of iran .
stalin spent his mornings at the local elementary school , teaching , of all things , morality and ethics class .
the two of them now sat at one of the caf 's small tables , leisurely spreading jam and margarine onto fresh bread from the corner store .
lzaro hummed behind the counter in the food prep space , sporting a white apron and pouring steaming organic espresso from coroico into glazed ceramic mugs .
`` hey , good morning ! ''
lzaro called cheerfully .
he kicked the mini refrigerator door closed after replacing the milk .
`` come on and have breakfast !
fresh marraqueta bread , and i 'm letting you all have some of my brownies . ''
alejo grinned and he and gabriel scraped some chairs over to the tiny table with the others .
lzaro had learned to make awesome brownies and cheesecake from his mom back in puerto rico , and his desserts made the caf really popular with tourists .
`` sure , i think i could choke down one of your brownies today . ''
gabriel casually nodded his thanks as lzaro plopped down a mug of strong creamy coffee in front of him .
`` or two .
depends on how much i think you need to have your self-esteem improved today by me eating your food so you wo n't , you know , think it 's gross or anything .
oww ! ''
a stale circle of bread flew through the air from where lzaro had returned behind the counter and thumped gabriel in the side of the head .
gabriel rubbed his head in mock pain as alejo jerked crossly towards lzaro .
`` hey !
he 's got to be careful , you know . ''
alejo knew that the worst of gabriel 's injury was healed , but he still felt protective , maybe guilty that something so awful had happened to a member of his team and he had n't been able to stop it .
`` so , '' stalin mumbled around a large mouthful of bread smothered in jelly , `` we 're gon na meet our clients half way up the trail , right ? ''
alejo made a face at the sight of crumbs spewing across the table .
`` yeah , all eight of the paraguayans are going to meet us up there . ''
they would meet on the trail up to uchumachi , the mountain top where kory tours led the wilderness survival tours that were completely booked every other week by prism trainees .
everyone down here in coroico thought the kory tour guys were up there teaching survival skills to tourists from all over south america .
uchumachi was isolated , perfect for alejo and his team to train others .
this weekend would be extra busy , because there would be a special guest : ishmael khan , all the way from pakistan .
it had been a year since the khan had attended one of their trainings , but he claimed that it was long overdue , that he had missed bolivia and missed them all .
alejo suspected that he mainly wanted to check on gabriel , his `` nephew '' , who had given him quite a scare .
as the junior member of the leadership team , lzaro was staying behind to man the caf and kory tours .
lzaro did n't mind terribly much , well aware that the gringa girls who came to the caf for organic coffee thought he looked hot in the irish tweed hat he always wore and that white apron .
the caf would n't have any business without his brownies , anyway , so it was a logical choice .
`` so , we 'll be back on monday afternoon , then . ''
alejo clasped hands briefly with lzaro , and swung one of the streamlined north face backpacks full of supplies they had prepared last night onto his back .
`` tuesday we 'll start getting everything ready for the crusade . ''
alejo and his team had already picked the spot for the operation against salazar , a greasy sandwich kiosk in cochabamba 's market where the man met his old college buddy every second friday of the month .
the street was packed and hemmed in by tall buildings .
no one would ever know where the sniper 's bullet had come from .
`` call me with any news , '' alejo instructed half-way out the door , then turned back to snatch another brownie off the table .
`` thanks for breakfast . ''
`` anytime ! ''
lzaro called , tipping the brim of his hat to them all .
as they left , alejo could have sworn he saw lzaro checking his reflection in the bamboo-framed mirror along the wall , flicking off stray bread crumbs with a satisfied smile .
it was 8:30 in the morning on sunday when alejo 's sat phone buzzed with a call .
the group had just finished a discussion called `` ethical questions related to justice '' and were now lounging around debating and munching granola bars for breakfast .
he pulled the phone out of the leg pocket of his pants , glancing at the screen for id .
`` lzaro . ''
alejo wandered from the clearing and entered the relative coolness of the forest at the top of the uchumachi mountain .
a thick cloud of mist still hung over the tops of the tangled foliage , not yet burned away by the mid-morning tropical sun .
`` alejo .
i 've got news . ''
lzaro 's voice twitched with excitement .
`` the speaker for the crusade we 've been planning ?
.he 's down here .
i saw him . ''
alejo blinked , suddenly at a loss for words .
`` uh , he 's there ?
in coroico ? ''
was n't that what lzaro had just said ?
`` do you know why ? ''
`` yeah , you 're going to love this .
it appears the guy is some kind of amateur sculptor and he entered that contest here in coroico this weekend .
i saw the guy walk by on the sidewalk this morning , when i was setting up the caf .
he 's with five staff members , and i followed them over to henrich 's for breakfast .
i got a table close to theirs out on the porch and heard , like , everything they said . ''
a long , long pause .
`` he 's going to thailand again , '' lzaro said .
`` after her leaves coroico , the day after tomorrow . ''
alejo clenched his teeth , hard .
`` ok , i 'm not sure you really want to hear the rest , '' lzaro rambled on , `` but you 're going to anyway . ''
gabriel appeared next to alejo and alejo punched the sat phone 's speaker button since they were away from the others and a thousand feet above coroico .
lzaro 's voice blared distorted out of the phone 's miniature speakers .
`` after they finished breakfast , i took a little stroll through the plaza to check out the sculpture exhibition , which i had not done since i 've been so darn busy at work this weekend .
i found , unfortunately , the statue that s ?
that the speaker entered in the exhibition and i am just sad that i 'm the one who had to see it and be here describing it to you . ''
`` i need to get back to the group .
can you hurry this up ? ''
`` i 'm getting there , '' lzaro insisted crossly .
`` so the guy made this humongous statue out of white plaster or something .
i think it 's supposed to be himself as some great benefactor .
he 's got himself sitting on a chair , and then around him are four little boys on the ground , looking at him .
there 's an older boy , like maybe twelve , sitting on the guy 's lap .
there 's a lot of detail in this thing , so i go closer and see that all the kids have either a little notebook or backpack with their name engraved on it .
like i said , wish you were here . ''
alejo rubbed his temple and spoke before allowing himself to think .
`` did any of them say ruben ? ''
there was a long pause , and then lzaro said , cautiously , `` now that 's freaky .
how did you know ?
that 's the kid on the guy 's lap . ''
alejo 's head reeled but he managed to focus , fingers digging into the phone .
rage filled him , and he let it , anything to keep away the tears he really did n't want gabriel seeing .
gabriel leaned against a fat banana plant , visually disturbed .
`` what are you going to do , che ? ''
`` i 'll call you back . ''
alejo flipped the phone shut and jammed it into his pocket .
he and gabriel stared at each other for a moment , and then alejo whirled around and began to pace .
fallen eucalyptus leaves perfumed the air as his sandals crushed them into the ground .
`` we have to move the crusade up , '' he told gabriel , still pacing .
`` i agree .
we have to do it before the trip to thailand . ''
alejo slammed a fist into the trunk of the banana plant , swearing loudly .
ruben !
to think that after all this time , salazar still remembered , was still gloating .
and why should n't he ?
no one cared , no one was going to make him pay .
where was justice ?
apparently , hiding her eyes .
no , god is justice , and his eyes are always on the earth , to reward the righteous and punish the wicked .
and right now , i 'm his hands .
god help me if i just sit here and watch without doing something .
gabriel was trying to calm him down .
`` listen , che , i 've got all the equipment we need at boris ' house .
i can hike into town and find a new spot .
i do n't need a lot of time to do calculations . ''
alejo narrowed his eyes at gabriel , feeling possessed .
he tried to concentrate , running through the same arguments he had had with himself on too many occasions .
are you really thinking of killing the guy ?
murder is a sin .
yeah ?
but so is allowing the innocent to be hurt or killed .
are there other options ?
let the national authorities punish him according to the law ... that really had n't gone so well in the past .
salazar and anyone with the power to do anything were constantly scratching each others ' backs .
a total indifference to his activities had only made salazar more bold in breaking the law , knowing no one would care .
`` no . ''
alejo stopped in his tracks and held up one hand .
`` in cochabamba the sniper could easily get away .
it ca n't work here in coroico . ''
gabriel seemed crushed .
`` coroico is too small , '' alejo continued , `` too nosy .
everyone sees everything , and the population here is too small for us to avoid suspicion in the investigation .
but i have an idea .
tell me honestly if you can do this . ''
he explained his idea to gabriel , whose lips twitched into a smile , then broadened into a genuine grin as he received the challenge to put his considerable talents into action-now .
gabriel let out a low whistle and looked at alejo .
`` sounds great , but there 's always the possibility of more people being onsite besides just the speaker .
the staff , for sure , would be collateral . ''
`` of course , '' alejo said .
`` let them be collateral .
they know , i 'm sure of it .
they 're with him almost 24/7 . ''
`` oh , this is going to be fun ! ''
gabriel 's eyes were shining again , and he pounded alejo on the shoulder before turning back towards the clearing .
`` i 'll get some stuff from boris ' place .
then , i 'm going to mail a package . ''
gabriel marched happily back towards the khan and the other guys , probably to share the good news that they would get to be part of the operation as a bonus to the weekend .
alejo slowly slid down against the trunk of the sleek banana plant and buried his face into his arms .
8 scarlet this would never , ever happen back in ohio .
noah stood on the edge of a jagged black boulder , wet from bare feet to shoulder with icy spray from a nearby sixty-foot waterfall .
two sapphire butterflies slowly flapped their powdery wings as they rested on noah 's right bicep , inhaling droplets of water from his exposed skin with their thin black tube mouths .
a dozen more butterflies soared through the spray near him , dodging clouds of crystalline mist tossed off the roaring waterfall .
they formed a living rainbow of jade , coral , buttercup yellow , and scarlet , flitting in circles around noah 's body , landing on tobin 's and tobias ' legs .
lzaro from kory tours , who was working even late sunday afternoon , waited for them down below next to a basket full of fresh picked mangos and oranges for a snack before they headed back to coroico .
it was may , nearly winter in bolivia , but here the earth was still full of butterflies and tangled flowers .
if noah were home in ohio , he would probably be sprawled on the couch in sweats , watching american idol reruns and eating doritos .
thank you god for letting me be here .
bolivia is beautiful .
this waterfall was the third noah and the guys had visited this afternoon with lzaro in the hired kory tours pick-up truck .
noah now stood next to the foaming pool that formed the base of the waterfall .
the climb around the edge of the pool , grabbing frigid rocks for support , had been awesome ; making it to the back of the roaring waterfall , staring through the rushing water from the darkened cave behind it , had been unbelievable .
now the sun was beginning to drop behind the forested mountains , and the chill of wet clothes caused noah to sigh and admit that it was time to change and head back to town .
for a huge dinner , hopefully .
with all the hiking and rock-climbing they had done today , he felt that tonight he would eat like a horse .
and sleep like a baby .
`` c'mon , i think we should go . ''
eduardo had worked his way back from behind the falls and now stood ankle-deep in swirling water next to noah .
he leaned close to be heard over the pounding of water upon water .
`` it 's getting late . ''
`` sure , ok , '' noah mouthed , and gently flicked the blue butterflies off his arm , sorry to see them go .
the two australians had already begun to climb down the wet , slippery rocks high above the truck , baseball caps dripping water down their sun-burned faces .
noah slipped into the cold water , feeling the push of the uneven pebbles at the pool 's bottom against his feet .
being tall was an advantage in this case , and he did n't find it too difficult to discover all the handholds and make it safely back to the flat ground close to the road .
all of the guys pulled on the t-shirts that they had left strewn across some scrubby plants near the truck , and then sat on dry boulders in silence , eating juicy mangos , letting their soaked shorts and legs dry a little in the sun .
it was good they had brought kory tour 's truck instead of the jeep .
at least now they would n't have to get the seats of the jeep wet and squishy with their behinds .
noah smiled to himself , wiped his sticky fingers on the sides of his shorts , then got up and followed the guys to the truck .
they made sure everyone had their cameras , phones , and was wearing shoes , then swung themselves up into the bed of the rusted white pickup , sitting on the sides .
tobias went up front to keep lzaro company , and as soon as he had slammed the pickup door , they bumped their way back onto the road , headed to coroico .
`` so , what did you guys think ? ''
lzaro turned around to look at them through the open back window of the truck 's cab , hands casually gripping the wheel .
the guy 's english had a funky british accent going on ; lzaro told them he had gotten his masters in england .
`` are n't the falls awesome ? ''
`` oh my gosh , yeah , '' tobin said , practically yelling to be heard over the noise created by speeding over the uneven road .
`` that was the most fun i 've had in a long time .
kayaking yesterday was cool though , too . ''
`` lzaro is the man for kayaking ! ''
eduardo said loudly .
`` this guy taught me everything i know about camping . ''
noah and eduardo had come to coroico before and spent the day kayaking with lzaro as their guide last year .
it was great that lzaro had been available this year , because the guy was a lot of fun and knew everything about the great outdoors .
he even had a workshop in town where he brought people in from little villages around coroico and taught them how to promote the cool things in nature right in their towns for when the tourists came .
`` so you guys are going to cotapata tomorrow , right ? ''
lzaro asked , adjusting a pair of dark shades over his eyes and pulling his wool irish cap down against the glare of the setting sun .
his pearly teeth shone against his tan as he grinned at them in the rearview mirror .
`` yep , '' eduardo said .
`` we 're really pumped for this hike . ''
cotapata national park was going to be amazing .
a diverse ecosystem , filled with species that ranged from the giant condor to the spider monkey .
lzaro let up on the gas a little bit now , as coroico was getting closer and a higher speed could be risky with more vehicles on the road .
spiky bushes laden with tiny red coffee beans lined the road , and behind them glossy banana plants sprouted , bundles of ripening violet bananas clustering from their stalks .
the citric aroma of the three oranges noah had eaten wafted to his nostrils , still on his skin , and he inhaled deeply .
this was tropical paradise .
the pickup slowed down even more as they rounded a curve in the gravel and came across a girl walking along the edge of the road .
the long indian skirt and maroon bandana tied over her hair caused noah to stare for a second before he realized they were familiar because he was looking at wara , walking back into coroico .
`` hey , stop the truck ! ''
he called to lzaro , leaning forward to bang on the outside of the cab .
tiny pebbles skidded as lzaro calmly slid the truck to a stop , still to wara 's back .
noah leaned over the side of the truck .
`` tu , mujer ! ''
he called out in his most booming voice .
`` you , woman ! ''
eduardo , also realizing it was wara , crossed his arms and looked down at the ground , laughing .
wara whipped her head around with startled eyes , then her face spread into a smile when she saw who was in the back of the truck .
`` hey , guys ! ''
she said in english , waving .
`` you scared me !
again .
are you heading back into town ? ''
`` yeah , '' noah said .
`` can we give you a ride ? ''
she shrugged .
`` ok , sure .
i was taking a walk , but i 've been gone for a long time now and it 's staring to get dark . ''
she walked over to the truck and climbed up into the back before tobias could even get out of the front to offer her the more comfortable seat .
`` go up front ! ''
eduardo smiled at her , motioning for tobias to be a gentleman .
`` it 's dusty back here . ''
`` it 's fine , '' wara waved away his concern .
`` we 're , like , almost there . ''
eduardo and tobin were taking up most of the space on one of the small pickup 's sides , so wara came and sat down next to noah , tucking the fabric of her pretty skirt between her knees .
`` thanks , man !
we can go now ! ''
noah called to lzaro , and the truck zoomed to life , sending gusts of wind flowing around their bodies again .
little strands of wara 's dark hair were tickling her face , and noah leaned forward to kiss her on the cheek and say , `` hola ! ''
`` hola ! ''
she said back , seeming a little nervous .
wara 's probably not used to riding in the back of pickups .
i should have made tobias get out of the front .
`` so , what have you been doing today ? ''
he asked her , casually balancing one of his arms on the side of the truck close to her back in case they hit a bump .
would n't want to lose her .
`` oh , well , mostly just exploring , enjoying time by myself since nazaret left this morning .
the martirs came to pick her up on the way to another bible conference in caranavi .
i just came from that really cool restaurant , villa bella .
ever go there ? ''
`` yeah , . ''
noah remembered .
`` that place run by the hippy lady and her family .
yoga classes upstairs .
in the middle of the jungle .
their homemade ice cream rocks ! ''
`` uh-huh , and it 's all organic . ''
wara smiled , apparently distracted from fears of falling out of the truck enough to look into noah 's eyes .
`` i had pineapple ice cream , and then , '' a dramatic pause , `` i got some henna tattoos .
just because i 'm too much of a chicken to get a real one . ''
her eyes twinkled , and noah realized she was n't wearing her glasses today .
the thought struck him that wara cadogan really was beautiful .
why had n't some guy snatched her up ?
`` wow , do we get to see , wara ? ''
tobin asked loudly , then flushed and cleared his throat .
`` i mean , depending of course on where you have them ?
ok , never mind . ''
wara raised one eyebrow , seeming to enjoy tobin putting his foot in his mouth .
noah could n't help but laugh .
`` they 're just on my hands and feet . ''
wara shook her head and held out a hand and a sandaled foot for viewing .
`` that 's where henna tattoos work the best . ''
before noah 's eyes could focus on the designs wara had on her feet , lzaro 's voice came from the front of the truck : `` wara cadogan ? ''
noah glanced over to see his tour guide/friend staring at them in the rearview mirror , jaw hanging , eyes still hidden behind the glasses .
lzaro knew wara ?
waiting for wara to answer to her name , noah turned back to her , about to say something-until he saw her face .
she looked as if she had just seen a phantom appear at the foot of her bed at midnight , while wide awake .
`` wara ?
eres tu ? ''
lzaro kept driving , but turned around to see wara himself , staring longer than was healthy when at the wheel .
`` is that you ? ''
lzaro slid off his shades , and noah heard wara gasp , audibly .
`` lzaro ? ''
she said , unsteadily .
`` yeah , it 's me . ''
lzaro sounded unnaturally cheerful , and his eyes were glued to wara in the mirror .
`` imagine seeing you here . ''
his gaze flitted to noah , and then to noah 's arm behind wara on the truck bed wall .
lzaro 's face blanched , and then , after a long pause , noah heard him say , `` well , dude , i 'm not sure if i should congratulate you on your choice in women .
i did n't know you two were together or i could have warned you about her .
fun for one night , you know .
not quite the good little missionary girl you might expect.
``
noah felt his neck begin to burn , shocked by the words coming from lzaro 's mouth .
he whipped around towards wara and saw her cheeks painted scarlet .
`` why are you doing this ? ''
she squeaked .
lzaro ignored her .
`` she 's pretty though , is n't she , noah ? ''
he winked into the mirror and then slid his dark glasses back on .
`` enjoy . ''
`` stop the truck ! ''
wara 's hoarse voice broke into noah 's pounding head , just in time to see that they were about to pass the hotel bella vista , where the girls were staying .
`` i 'm getting out ! ''
the brakes slammed to a halt in a billow of dust and lzaro muttered , `` fine . ''
wara was out of the back of the truck before noah could even process what had just happened .
she jogged into the hotel without even looking back .
`` wara ! ''
noah called after her , absolutely furious , shivering with anger .
lzaro had already hit the gas , but noah stood up just as the truck jerked into action and he vaulted over the side onto the gravel .
the momentum threw him down onto one knee with a skid , and he leaped up and raced after wara into the hotel .
how could he ?
what is lzaro 's problem ?
`` wara !
wait ! ''
noah saw her disappearing down a hallway at the back of the hotel , and he slid on the tile past a fountain and managed to stop just outside the door to her room , which slammed shut in his face .
muffled , gasping sobs came from inside the door , and noah froze .
he was angry .
really angry .
trying to compose himself , he knocked loudly on the door .
`` wara ?
please .
i ca n't believe he would say that .
do you want me to go beat the jerk up ?
we actually ?
he was our tour guide .
i know where he lives .
i 'll go ? ''
`` noah , just go away ! ''
wara wailed from inside , voice muffled through the thick wooden door .
`` i 'm going home , to cochabamba !
right now ! ''
`` i 'll ? ''
`` i 'm sorry ?
i ca n't .
go away ! ''
she 's really serious .
but i 'm not letting her get on some bus or taxi alone , like this .
noah glanced around the empty hallway , dripping all over the hotel 's wooden parquet floor and staring at the turquoise grout in between the red tiles on the wall .
i 'll go back with her .
i do n't need to go to cotapata with the guys .
wara was n't going to be in the mood to discuss this at the moment ; in fact , noah could imagine her inside the hotel room , angrily throwing clothes into her purple backpack , ready to leave this place forever .
breaking into a run , noah bounded down the hotel 's steps three at a time and spun out onto the street .
he sprinted across the plaza towards his hostel to get his stuff , face still burning , images of his fist connecting with lzaro 's jawbone flashing through his mind .
he had better be done dropping the guys off by the time i get to the hostel , or i may have to do time in a bolivian jail for assault , noah raged .
what happened ?
i thought lzaro was a nice guy , and suddenly he turned into a lying idiot .
bolivian jail was n't on the menu today ; the white pickup truck was nowhere in sight when noah burst through the door of his hostel , panting like some rabid tourist from the wild .
he jammed the key into the lock of his room and stuffed his few clothes , in various states of muddiness , into his backpack .
pulling on his last pair of dry pants , noah slammed the door of their room shut and half-ran down the hall again , while dialing eduardo 's number on his cell .
eduardo , and the australians in the background , protested from the mexican restaurant where they had been dropped off that noah should n't miss out on their trip to cotapata just because lzaro had suddenly become a moron .
`` thanks guys , but i 've got to go with her , ok ?
sorry .
i 'll catch you later . ''
`` alright , sure .
we 'll miss you , man .
it wo n't be the same without you . ''
noah flipped the phone shut just as he rounded the corner into the plaza , right on the street where all the buses parked before they took off for la paz .
wara would need to get to la paz first , then take another bus to cochabamba .
at the moment , the street was dark and empty under the glowing street lamps .
the pharmacy where he knew they sometimes sold bus tickets when the agency was closed on sundays still had its door open , and noah could see that a man in a white lab coat was rearranging bottles behind the counter .
he jogged over and burst in , gasping , `` buenas noches !
are there any buses to la paz tonight ? ''
`` no , no buses tonight , '' the elderly man answered his inquiry .
the scent of mint pomade and syrupy orange made noah 's head buzz .
`` the agencies do n't want to take passengers out this late , you know .
not safe on that road . ''
oh yeah .
the road of death .
`` but buses do leave at night sometimes , do n't they ? ''
noah really hoped he could help wara out .
`` i think i rode a bus to la paz after dark one time . ''
`` there is that one bus , parked down there by the store . ''
when noah looked lost , the man came around the glass display counter and walked with noah over to the door , pointing a block to the north .
`` that 's a chartered bus that some group is going back to la paz in tonight .
the driver is over there , smoking , just outside the door .
maybe you could talk with him . ''
`` thank you very much . ''
noah shook the man 's leathery hand , and backed out of the pharmacy , destination medium-sized bus near the store .
just like the pharmacy guy said , the driver was sitting on a rubber step of the bus , smoking , wearing a cheap brown sweater and scuffed leather shoes .
`` can we buy a ride on this bus ? ''
noah asked him , trying not to appear crazed and breathless after so much running around .
`` for me and one other person .
do you have room ? ''
the man took a drag of his cigarette and sized noah up .
`` we have lots of room .
this bus was hired to take a certain group of people back to la paz tonight .
but the tickets would be expensive , so we do n't have many other passengers . ''
`` that 's fine , '' noah said , willing to shell out the few dollars more .
he could n't forget wara 's white face when lzaro had said all that crap .
`` how much ? ''
`` eighty bolivianos , '' the driver said , after a pause .
`` each . ''
noah peeled the bills out of an outer pocket of his backpack that was still dry .
`` what time does it leave ? ''
he realized he should have asked first .
`` right now , '' the man said , though no one else seemed to be around .
the bus driver shuffled up the stairs into the bus and reappeared with a ticket book , where he made noah print the two passengers ' names and identification numbers .
he scribbled his passport number , and then totally made up a number for wara , since he had no idea what her passport number was and at the moment really did n't care .
`` eight o'clock .
en punto , '' the driver said , carefully ripping the tickets off and passing them to noah .
`` on the dot . ''
`` sure , '' noah replied distractedly , wondering if wara would show up by then .
what if she did n't come ?
he should get back to the plaza so he would n't miss her .
noah walked back to the plaza , ignoring the tempting aroma of frying hamburgers from a silver food cart on the corner .
a group of well-dressed people , laughing together in muted tones , passed him , headed towards the bus .
noah felt a moment of panic .
what if the last bus out tonight left without them ?
right then , like magic , wara came towards him across the plaza , nearly flying .
she was wearing jeans instead of that beautiful skirt and noah would have recognized that light blue alpaca sweater anywhere .
how long had wara had it , three , four years ?
noah slid down onto an empty bench right in her path , feet planted on the ground , really hoping she would n't be angry .
`` hey , '' he said , as wara stopped cold in front of him .
she looked devastated , red eyes visible even in the dim lighting of the plaza .
`` please do n't be mad , but i got some bus tickets for us .
it was n't easy , cause , like , no buses were going out tonight , but i found a special one that i think will be really nice .
it 's leaving right now . ''
wara 's mouth opened and then snapped shut .
she stared at the two tickets noah clutched in his hand .
`` i 'm gon na go back to cochabamba with you , '' he added , just in case he had forgotten to mention that part of his plan .
`` i just did n't want you to go all alone . ''
he paused , noticing her lip was quivering .
`` are you mad ? ''
wara burst into tears , and then tried to hide it by taking a deep breath .
`` but ?
your trip ? ''
`` who cares ? ''
noah shrugged .
`` another time . ''
he got up and held out his hand for wara to hand him her backpack .
`` c'mon , i think i saw the guys who hired this bus heading over there , so we 'd better hurry up . ''
amazingly , wara allowed herself to be led over to the bus , whose engine was now purring lustily , and they climbed up the steps into the darkened interior .
inside , the bus was only about a third full , most of the people sitting towards the back in a group , settling in for a nap on the way back to the capital .
the men wore slick jackets with dress shirts , and most of the women seemed to be wearing pantsuits of some kind .
probably the group who chartered the bus .
not very comfortable clothes for traveling .
noah squinted at their tickets , and then found the seat numbers on the right side , pretty near the front .
he put wara 's purple backpack under the seat by the window , and then he waited , a little nervously , for wara to get into her seat first .
she 's not talking to me .
is she mad ?
of course she 's mad -- -the stuff lzaro said !
that idiotic jerk .
why would he spout off like that about wara ?
noah felt his face get hot again as he slid into his spot next to the aisle and he wondered how wara could be so quiet .
`` why are you doing this ? ''
he heard wara 's broken voice echo in his brain , and he leaned back into his seat with a sigh .
oh god , i really need some help right now , cause i 'm really angry .
help me to love my enemy-that 's who our psychopathic tour guide has suddenly morphed into-and make this sudden turn of events work according to your plan .
noah turned his eyes to wara , and saw , with a twist of his heart , that she had leaned forward to rest her forehead against the velvet seat back in front of her , tears sliding silently down her cheeks and dripping onto the floor .
9 silver never before had wara truely understood the expression `` i wanted to crawl into a hole and die . ''
noah sat next to her , and she wanted to die , just die .
what was he even doing here ?
nothing was ever going to be ok between them ever again .
she barely noticed as the last of the passengers filed onto the bus , sitting somewhere behind her and noah .
good .
her eyes were so bloodshot and swollen from sobbing in the hotel room that she could n't even pretend to be civil to anyone in the mood to talk .
wara stared out the window , nervously winding her foot up in the strap of her backpack under the seat , again feeling her eyes sting .
`` she 's a lot of fun for one night .
not the good little missionary girl you may imagine ?
enjoy ! ''
his voice ran through her head without her permission , and wara blinked away the tears , truly wishing for that dark hole and covers to pull over her head and hide -- -forever .
with a soft hiss , the bus door closed and the vehicle rumbled to life .
she sat in a daze as the bus began to crawl its way along the narrow , darkened streets , leaving coroico behind .
the hum of the highway enveloped them and wara slumped forward against the seat back , miserable .
she knew he was there and was going to say something eventually , but she actually jumped when noah 's voice broke the silence .
`` i ca n't believe lzaro would just make up all that stuff about you , '' he spat .
she glanced at him for a millisecond and saw that his jaw was squared , eyes stormy .
`` i mean , what is his problem ?
this is the second time we used his tour group to do stuff here in coroico , and i thought the guy was cool .
how in the world did he ? ''
the look on wara 's face must have cut him off .
noah thinks lzaro made it all up .
her heart broke then and she felt herself staring at him , pale in the moonlight streaming through the window .
`` it was n't a lie . ''
she nearly gagged on the words .
`` i used to date him . ''
`` huh ? ''
noah blinked .
wara felt her face crumple .
`` oh , noah !
why did you come with me ?
you should have stayed ?
do you want to go back ?
we 're barely out of town . ''
now she was blubbering , but the memory of everything was taking over : the things lzaro said .
things that had happened that first year .
`` no .
there 's no way i 'm letting you stay on this bus yourself . ''
noah still seemed a little stunned by what she had just said .
`` you used to date lzaro ? ''
`` for like six weeks .
the first year i lived in cochabamba .
we met at a church youth thing . ''
this breath , this space in the universe she now occupied next to noah , who she loved and had to confess these things to , was without question the worst moment in her life .
if she could just say what had happened , she might curl into the seat and die in peace , next to noah .
`` so one night , '' she mumbled , `` i had too much to drink . ''
like the other night .
for a little while , wara had totally forgotten about that lovely scene at caf paris .
new waves of shame washed over her .
her hands twisted the hem of her sweater into a pulp .
`` and it was like he said .
that night was the last time i saw him ?
because i could n't handle seeing him after what happened . ''
she was telling all this to the velvet pattern on the back of the seat , terrified to look at noah and see his disgust .
he was n't looking at the girl he thought he knew , and now he realized the truth about her .
`` wara , '' he started , but she cut him off , laughing breathlessly .
`` and that 's not everything !
the morning after it happened , we were supposed to fly to puerto rico together for his brother 's wedding .
he made such a big deal about it , because he said he 'd never had a 'nice ' girlfriend before to take home to meet his family and he knew his mom was going to be all proud of him .
lzaro 's parents even paid for our tickets . ''
wara felt dizzy , and she squeezed her eyes shut .
had she really done all this ?
she 'd spent so long trying not to think about it , pretending she was the kind of person who would never act this way .
but it was all true .
she licked her lips , determined to finish the story .
`` so , the last night i saw lzaro , he gave me five thousand dollars for the trip , just to keep for him because in the morning he had to stop in the market and get a present for his mom and he did n't want to get robbed there on the way to the airport .
and ?
he also gave me the diamond wedding ring for his brother 's wife .
she had him buy it in bolivia , because it was cheaper than in puerto rico .
that was at dinner .
but later , i felt so horrible about everything that i never showed up to go to puerto rico in the morning .
i just stood lzaro up at the airport .
i went to montana for four months and never talked to him again .
when i came back to cochabamba he was gone .
i just ran away from him , because it was easier to just not think about it .
never gave him back the money and the ring .
he definitely hates me now . ''
there , she 'd told him everything .
there was a giant split somewhere inside her heart : this adventurous girl who loved languages and jesus and living here in bolivia .
and then , on the dark side , this liar who had slept with a guy while working as a missionary and never had the guts to face him afterwards .
she felt like she had just turned herself inside out , here on this bus in front of noah : the rotten inside she always kept hidden from the world was now revealed , stinking up this bus , her entire life .
noah was speaking , but focusing on his voice was a struggle .
`` but you repented . ''
the tone was a statement , not a question .
`` and god forgave you . ''
`` yes . ''
wara shrugged weakly .
`` but it does n't feel like it . ''
noah pulled wara 's chin up with one finger , until her face was tilted towards his .
`` c'mon , look at me ! ''
he insisted .
wara tried , but abject humiliation would n't let her eyes connect with his .
`` in that story jesus told , '' he said , `` the father took his son back after he spent everything in wild living , like we all do . ''
noah took both of wara 's hands in his and leaned in closer .
`` but when the son came back , the father did n't just let him slave away as a servant .
he threw a party .
he loves you , wara .
you 're back . ''
noah 's adam 's apple bobbed and he paused , gazing out the window behind wara , seemingly lost in thought .
a moment later his eyes rounded and he jerked his gaze back to her .
his grip on her hands tightened .
and he was staring at her .
wide-eyed and staring .
`` i have something to give you , '' he finally said , releasing her hands hastily and digging around in his pocket .
wara 's gaze spiraled to the floor , still dizzy with shame in spite of noah 's reminder that she was forgiven .
nice words , yeah .
god could forgive , but how could he ever feel same about her , seeing what she had done ?
it was one thing to not punish her for her sins , and quite another to still like her , to want to spend time with her .
the same for noah .
he was witness to her worst moment .
maybe several worst moments .
he could still be nice , but he would never look at her without thinking about ?
that .
her heart was aching when she felt noah slide closer , wrapping one long arm around her shoulder .
wara inhaled sharply and met his eyes , completely confused .
noah was touching her ?
he was supposed to be repulsed .
he sat like that in silence for a full minute , eyes flickering , obviously running through something in his head .
then he slid his arm from her shoulder and scooted back to his own seat , fist tightly closed around something in his left hand .
`` i have something to ?
to ask you , '' he announced , and the goofy grin that began to spread across his face caused wara to blink .
`` now might not be a good time .
in fact , you just might kill me .
but we 've known each other for a really long time now , so i just ? ''
noah 's voice faltered and wara sniffed , completely mystified .
he better not be about to ask me advice about some sin problem he has , now that we 're on the subject and he happens to have a friend here who is quite familiar with sinfulness !
`` ?
i just have this ?
for you , '' noah was going on .
`` feel free to laugh at me , as long as it makes you feel better . ''
wara 's eyes focused blankly on a silver ring engraved with arabic letters that noah was holding out towards her , glimmering in the faint light from the front of the bus .
`` wara , i ? ''
noah shot her a lopsided smile and murmured to himself , `` you 're doing this all wrong . ''
he leaped to his feet , almost banging his head on the bus 's dark ceiling , and managed to get down on one knee in the aisle .
wara 's eyes popped and flashed between the silver ring and noah .
what ?
had he gone crazy ?
`` ok , now i 'm sweating , '' noah said , rubbing a hand across his face and sucking in a deep breath .
`` i 'm kind of messing this up .
this ring is something i got in egypt when i studied there for a semester when i was twenty .
i kept it for a while , to give to the unlucky girl i will attempt to trick into dating and then marrying me .
it says , '' noah held the ring out towards wara again , on one shaking palm , `` 'my beloved is mine and i am his ' .
i wanted to ask you if you would consider thinking of me like that ?
if you would like to be with me ?
get to know me ?
think about marrying me someday !
if you did n't get sick of me while we 're dating , you know . ''
noah 's hands were shaking , though he tried to smile , and he actually seemed on the verge of tears .
wara 's jaw went slack as noah quickly added , `` i mean , you do n't have to decide right now , but i would like us to get to know each other .
i want to be with you , wara ! ''
`` what ?
you ca n't .
how could you ? ''
wara tried in vain to think of something to say , jerking around in her seat as scattered applause broke out from the back of the bus .
they were watching !
why was noah on his knees ?
he 's crazy !
he said he wanted to be with me ?
is this a joke ?
it 's not a joke-he 's sweating and waiting for me to answer !
he looks like he really ?
still likes me ?
in reality , noah 's eyes said that he still loved her .
`` of course , i love you , '' wara blurted .
`` but how could you ? ''
`` ssshhh ? ''
noah hauled himself out of his scrunched up position in the aisle , laughing but looking stricken .
`` are you serious ?
you actually love me ? ''
noah sat down next to her again , and wara gaped at him , dumbstruck .
she nodded .
`` ok then , '' he said nervously .
for a moment no one spoke , and wara 's heart pounded in her ears like a tom-tom .
`` we , my dear , have a lot to talk about .
but not now .
let 's just rest , ok. come here ?
just rest . ''
noah put his arm around her tentatively , watching her to make sure it as ok. as he pulled her close , he slid the silver ring on her finger and squeezed her hand .
all wara could do was lean against him in an amazed stupor , thinking this could not be real .
`` everyone in the world is desperate for grace . ''
the quote from a book wara had read this year exploded in her mind like sparkling firecrackers .
`` this is what 's unique about christianity : grace .
no other religion has a god who gives grace . ''
her heart was thudding against her ribs , but her eyelids drooped .
wara leaned back against the seat , noah 's arm around her , and her heart slowed until she finally fell asleep .
she came to consciousness as if in a dream .
a roaring heat swallowed her and something solid and icy smacked her in the head .
wara 's eyes flew open as wide as they had ever opened in her life , and what she saw was a mountain of writhing silver flames .
and then it was gone .
she tried to grab on to something , but it was like a nightmare catapult flung her into space .
the flames spiraled overhead again and she opened her mouth to scream , hearing only a sickening crunch of metal and glass shattering around her like crystal rain .
the flaming bus lifted off the ground over her head and hurdled away with a whoosh of fire and wara realized she had fallen out of the window of the bus onto her back .
just like that , there was nothing but the star-studded sky overhead and the most awful sound wara had ever heard in her life : metal punching against boulders as the bus rolled down the ravine .
screams echoed for a few seconds , and then another explosion battered the ground and all was deathly quiet .
wara began to shake .
she did n't know if she was dying , but this had to be what dying felt like .
there had been an accident , and ?
where was noah ?
she had to see if she could get up , because noah had been right beside her , and he had to be right beside her still .
she tried to roll onto one side and was terrified to feel her head weighed about a hundred pounds .
she could barely move .
gasping for breath , wara forced her eyes to the drop-off where the entire bus had disappeared .
to her left was an expanse of flat ground and spiky , clumped grass .
she struggled to turn her head to the right and laid her cheek against the cold gravel .
shadowy trees bent over the ravine , dipping low in the wind towards death below .
there was no one there .
wara sprawled on the edge of the cliff , eyes unseeing , until everything faded into darkness .
10 midnight blue alejo was stretched out on the floor of the tent on his stomach , trying to ignore stalin 's noisy snoring , eyes boring into the darkness and having absolutely no success at sleep .
the sat phone 's glowing display said it was nearly midnight , and the clearing that held their tents buzzed with cicadas and singing frogs and the forest 's pulsating hum .
a snap cracked above the quiet chorus , and alejo jerked his head up .
he recognized the raucous voices that floated into the clearing as belonging to the paraguayans and bolted to his feet .
he unlatched the opening to the tent and jogged across the darkened clearing towards the group who was just exiting the forest .
gabriel and some of the guys had made the hike down towards the spot where the bus should have gone over , anxious to see the results of the hastily-planned operation .
it was too early for any news on the radio they had stashed with the supplies ; the heavy tropical growth down the sides of the mountain was so thick that no one passing by would even notice the bus had crashed , unless the explosion had left a pile of debris next to the highway .
gabriel had n't wanted any tell-tale signs left over that the accident had n't really been accidental , and so had moved in to check the scene .
`` hey . ''
alejo made out gabriel 's pale face at the front of the line .
he was relived to see that his friend seemed pleased .
`` two questions : is he dead , and does it look like an accident ? ''
`` 99.9 % probability , and yes , check , '' gabriel said merrily .
some of the others , william and marco , drew up next to gabriel , laughing too loudly , and snickering something to the guys behind them .
alejo finally made out the dark forms of christian , daniel , and osmar strolling casually out of the forest , hauling something between them .
something that had the shape of a human .
frowning sharply , alejo opened his mouth just as they dropped their burden to the dewy grass .
the person rolled over , moaning , and a head with long tresses turned to one side , revealing a white face streaked with blood .
alejo swore , immediately understanding what was going on .
he glared at all of them , including gabriel .
`` what were you thinking , bringing her here ?
she survived ? ''
`` yeah , she was on the bus , '' gabriel explained , happiness slightly subdued .
alejo noticed gabriel was carrying a purple backpack that obviously did n't belong to him , which he carelessly slung to the ground .
the girl moaned again and then her eyes slit open .
she thrashed one way and then the other , then flew up to a sitting position with a loud gasp and yelled , `` noah ! ''
noah ?
not a bolivian name .
`` she 's american , '' christian grinned , crooked teeth visible in the darkness .
`` passport in her bag . ''
alejo 's heart took a nose dive .
not one of salazar 's staff .
how many others ?
`` yeah , this is cool , huh ? ''
william continued the jittery prattling from alejo 's left .
`` we just thought you might want to share in the spoils of victory . ''
a few lewd comments rumbled from around the circle of men , and the american girl looked up sharply , terrified .
`` i w-w-was in a bus accident , '' she managed to say , in perfect spanish .
`` where am i ?
my friend was also on the bus-did you see anyone else ? ''
she looked around frantically , trying to get up but obviously lightheaded .
`` you were n't in no bus accident , sweetheart , '' william drawled , reaching out to touch her dark hair .
`` your bus has been bombed ? ''
`` basta ! ''
alejo snapped , pushing william back hard .
`` enough . ''
`` bombed ? ''
the girl 's voice faltered .
alejo clenched his fist and fought the urge to knock william out .
they should have left any survivors on the road , so they could get to help .
now , instead , the girl was here , in the hands of some very unsafe men , himself included .
alejo 's plans had n't included this possibility .
how could anyone have survived the explosion ?
this girl did n't even seem to be burned .
stalin , long hair fuzzy around his very sleepy face , had by now joined the rest of the guys , who stood leering and making savage jokes .
he rubbed his eyes , then slowly grinned , offering a hand to help the girl up from the dirt .
`` come on , '' he said , helping her stand up by his side .
`` you guys should n't talk that way around a lady .
it 's not her fault she ended up here with all of us .
was n't supposed to happen . ''
`` oh , cut it out , stalin ! ''
christian grinned .
`` always such a gentleman .
she 's going to die anyway .
she 's a witness .
we thought we might as well bring her up to join us for the party in honor of our last night in coroico . ''
alejo 's mind seemed full of sludge .
there were n't supposed to be other people on the bus .
only salazar and his staff .
but you did n't know that for sure , did you ?
an accusing voice bit back at him .
there could have been children on that bus .
your own family could have been on there .
acid scalded alejo 's stomach and he took a deep breath .
the girl was on the point of tears , looking all around , trying to find something .
or someone .
alejo 's mind cleared and he decided what he was going to do .
marching over towards stalin , alejo motioned for him to move out of the way .
he looped an arm under the girl 's arms and dragged her smoothly to her feet , anchoring her back against his chest .
her weight sagged against him , so weak she could barely protest .
with his free hand , alejo forced the girl 's face to tip backwards so he could see her .
he could feel her lower jaw trembling in his palm , and large honey-colored eyes with thick lashes met his , runny with tears .
alejo allowed himself to grin wolfishly .
then he glared at the guys who were still leering at their prisoner .
`` if anyone 's having any fun here tonight , it 's me .
sadly for all of you , i am in charge , and unless you want to have your salaries cut off by the khan himself i need all of you to get your rears back to your tents and sleep-now .
we 'll start tomorrow at six .
last session before it 's over . ''
alejo felt the girl 's rapid breathing as he set his jaw and pulled her back tighter against his chest .
a chorus of complaints arose around him , which he ignored , turning towards gabriel with a wink .
`` good work everyone .
especially you , gabo . ''
gabriel was staring at alejo slack-jawed as the rest of the guys gave up and whirled around to head towards their tents , muttering bitterly .
alejo motioned towards the purple backpack with his chin , and said , `` pass me that , will you , gabo ?
she and i are going to retire . ''
gabriel picked up the backpack and passed it over .
`` sorry , '' gabriel barely whispered as he leaned closer .
`` the other guys made me bring her .
but she would have had to go anyway .
she 's a witness . ''
`` yeah , i know .
everything 's going to work out . ''
alejo winked again and then said a little louder , `` you did it .
it worked . ''
`` thanks , '' gabriel said , glowing expression admitting he enjoyed the praise .
the girl began to squirm feebly against alejo .
`` what are you guys talking about ?
please , my friend might still be around and i have to go back ?
! ''
alejo plugged the girl 's mouth tightly with his hand and started towards his tent , dragging her in front of him and really hoping she would n't bite .
`` good night ! ''
he called to gabriel , then raised his voice as he approached the tent .
`` stalin !
get your butt out here with your sleeping bag .
bad news -- -you 're going over to bunk with benjamin . ''
alejo ripped open the entrance to his large tent as he heard a low moan and `` awww , man !
alright . ''
grumbling , stalin gathered up his sleeping bag and pillow , then grabbed his bottle of antacids and the ridiculous stuffed snoopy that he insisted on bringing along on every trip .
alejo and the girl ducked inside his tent , which was lit by a camping lantern perched on a box they always left up here in the clearing .
still keeping her tightly in his grip , he cautiously slid his hand off her mouth , waiting for stalin to leave .
she sucked in air with a shudder , still sagging against alejo .
stalin passed by them on his way to the door .
he managed to free one hand from his mass of possessions and held it out to the surviving girl , rather sadly .
`` the guys say your passport says you 're a missionary , senorita .
i admire the way you missionaries share what you believe , far away from home . ''
stalin sighed dramatically and then ran a finger down the girl 's bloodied cheek , almost guiltily .
`` i do n't think you 'll be here much longer , but if anyone ever deserved to go through those heavenly gates , i think it would be you . ''
`` wait !
please ?
? ''
wara tried to reach after stalin as he darted out the door .
`` wait ! ''
she screamed again , and alejo clamped his hand over her mouth and growled lowly into her ear .
`` i 'm not going to hurt you , ok ?
stop yelling .
i need everyone else in their tents , where they wo n't be paying any attention to you . ''
he removed his hand from her mouth , then scooped her up and carried her , kicking and struggling , towards his rumpled sleeping bag .
`` you 've got to lay down ! ''
he insisted , inwardly kicking himself because he knew he was scaring her to death .
`` you were in an accident , ok ?
i 've got to see how badly you 're hurt .
you probably have a concussion , so you need to hold still . ''
he tried to keep his tone calm , because the usual way he barked out orders was probably not going to make this girl stop kicking .
she stiffened , then curled up on the sleeping bag , eyes squeezed shut .
in the light of the tent 's lamp , alejo took in his captive 's dusty jeans and sweater .
her dark hair , coated with a fine film of dust , was streaked with burgundy highlights and scattered around her shoulders .
with tan skin and light brown eyes , she did n't look like the typical north american girl .
alejo slid to the floor of the tent , one knee in the air , and let out a long sigh .
after deliberation he finally said , `` i 'm sorry for the crudeness outside , but i just wanted to get you in here to keep you away from the other guys .
ok ? ''
she slit her eyes open and searched his face , as if wanting to believe him , then gave up and curled back up in a ball .
he did a double take , noticing the girl had coffee-colored , indian-style tattoos on her palms .
henna .
`` what 's your name ? ''
`` wara , '' she muttered .
alejo was surprised to hear a bolivian name .
aymara language .
means `` star . ''
a gold star ring twinkled in the america girl 's nose .
`` why do you have a name from bolivia ? ''
he saw her swallow , hard .
`` my grandpa was a missionary , too .
in peru .
he married a quechua lady .
my parents let my grandma name me and she gave me a native name . ''
`` are you hurt ? ''
alejo felt himself staring .
the girl 's explanation of her name had suddenly brought it home : she was very real , with a very real family somewhere who would miss her if alejo just killed her here in cold blood .
`` i have a medical kit , '' he said hoarsely .
`` cuts from broken glass ? ''
he sounded like an idiot .
his team needed him to kill this girl .
for the mission , he had to kill this girl .
and he was asking her if she needed band-aids .
she glared at him then , jaw clenched with anger .
`` why do you care ? ''
she hissed .
`` my best friend was sitting right next to me , and if you did n't find him he could be dead .
what have you done ? ''
her tone rose frantically , and she curled up tighter on his sleeping bag .
alejo 's stomach burned at her words ; the others on the bus had almost certainly been taken out , but he could n't think about if salazar was gone or not until he heard the news that the body was found .
if they ever found a body .
alejo stared at this girl with the nose ring in his tent and saw a life he had just utterly devastated .
`` who else was on the bus ? ''
he asked against his better judgment .
his mouth was bone dry .
wara stared at the olive wall of the tent , obviously exhausted by her tirade .
`` i was ?
with noah .
i did n't really pay attention .
there were a bunch of people in the back in suits and then some more people came on at the last minute . ''
alejo felt sick .
more people possibly unrelated to salazar .
and this girl in front of him .
wara .
uncontrollable nausea welled up in the pit of alejo 's stomach , and he knew there was no holding it in .
`` excuse me , '' he told the girl briefly , then ripped open the door to the tent and ran outside into a nearby cluster of banana plants .
he threw up until there was nothing left , then wiped his chin on his t-shirt .
alejo sank down onto the ground with a clear view of his tent , still feeling sick and undone .
thankfully , it looked like everyone was in their tents snoring .
no one had seen him out here vomiting .
sucking in a slow breath , alejo tried to clear his mind and think .
if he helped the girl leave this place alive , he would have to leave the prism .
forever .
the guys could even be sent after him to kill him .
and then look for his family .
she would have to leave and never come back , always look over her shoulder .
and she would tell the authorities everything .
thank god the khan is gone .
lzaro had met him in the jungle near boris ' house tonight , and the two were driving to la paz in lzaro 's chartreuse brasilia .
ishmael was off to peru , then home to peshawar .
if ishmael were here , she 'd be dead already .
this time alejo felt he had no plan .
there was always a price to pay , he 'd learned , for doing what was right .
this time , the payment might have to be wara , the american missionary girl .
11 coffee she must be shock .
she had to be , because how else could she keep breathing , how else could she even think , when noah might be dead .
she was sprawled on a sleeping bag in some tent , captured by some dangerous guys who had probably made her bus crash and killed noah .
no !
she forced herself to erase that thought , scrub the eraser madly across the pencil lines on the page until it was gone altogether .
that could n't be right .
noah had to be just fine .
and it was good he was n't here , with these awful guys who had threatened wara outside .
she closed her eyes against the cool material of the sleeping bag , feeling sick and dizzy , but surprisingly , not in pain .
the thought crossed her mind that she could just get up and walk out of here , but she was sure they would catch her .
thoughts of noah in the bus at the bottom of the ravine paralyzed her , filling her body with lead .
the door of the tent rustled and the guy came back in , brooding and dangerous looking , with stormy hazel eyes .
she blinked , noticing he was n't wearing a t-shirt anymore .
the guy looked about her age , maybe five ten , wearing khaki pants with pockets everywhere and leather sandals .
wara cringed , because she knew whoever these guys were , this one was the leader .
she 'd heard how he 'd ordered the guys around outside , sending them away mumbling with muted curses .
and now she was stuck here with him .
who in the world were these guys , and where was she ?
what happened ?