`` i mean , he 's not really here , he 's with god , but ... the casket is in there . ''
wara bit her lip and reached up with one hand to push a stray piece of hair out of one eye .
as she did , eduardo 's gaze followed her hand , and his mouth opened into a round `` o '' .
`` they gave you noah 's ring ? ''
he asked , staring at the shining silver on her hand .
wara frowned , not sure who he was talking about .
eduardo grabbed her hand quickly and examined the ring .
`` is n't that noah 's ring ? ''
he lifted his eyes to hers again , blinking behind the trendy glasses .
`` did you find it after the accident ? ''
`` no , '' wara said , realizing dully that eduardo , as one of noah 's best friends , must have seen this ring sometime before .
she had never seen noah wearing it .
eduardo sniffed loudly , but his face lit up .
`` he gave it to you ? ''
`` yeah , '' wara said hesitantly , not sure where this was leading .
why did it really matter ?
`` that 's awesome ! ''
eduardo was actually grinning .
`` what ? ''
in her present condition , wara was obviously missing something .
`` noah saved that ring for a really long time , '' eduardo explained slowly , as if revealing a delicious secret .
`` he said that he did n't want to just casually date someone , but that when he started a relationship he wanted it to be serious .
well , a lot of the guys , we used to always tell him , 'well , start a relationship then !
what are you waiting for ? '
but noah would always say that he thought maybe god wanted him to be single , since god had n't brought the right girl along yet .
i told him so many times that that was a bunch of hogwash .
he knew several great girls .
noah was just plain scared of commitment !
he told me that his parents always fought like cats and dogs , and that they never loved each other a day in their lives . ''
wara swallowed hard and circled the ring around her finger .
she knew that noah 's relationship with his parents was n't the best , mostly due to his decision to be a missionary instead of pursuing a career that would make lots of money .
he had never mentioned anything about his parents ' relationship with each other .
`` so , last weekend , when he was going to coroico , '' eduardo was going on , `` noah told me that he was taking the ring along , since god supposedly was n't bringing any girls into his life that he could give it to and he had reached the ripe old age of twenty-eight .
he was just going to ceremoniously throw it out the side of the bus , over the road of death .
to put to death the idea of marriage and living happily ever after . ''
eduardo 's eyes were swimming but the twinkle was back `` but it looks like he did n't throw the ring over after all .
he gave it to you ... right ? ''
wara just stared at him , because her throat hurt too much to try to speak .
she gave a curt nod , not even trying to pretend she was n't about to cry .
eduardo looked very satisfied .
`` thank you , '' she finally whispered , wanting to ask more before she had to go into the living room .
but then she saw the couple dressed in black , standing at the back of the room through the wide double doors , weeping .
wara had never seen their picture , but the look of utter desolation on their faces and the way their gaze shifted uncomfortably around the room as if they were in a strange land they had never before imagined they would see , told her that these were noah 's parents .
`` his mom and dad . ''
eduardo touched wara 's arm , following the direction of her gaze .
`` we 'll talk another time , ok ? ''
wara nodded , and glanced at alejo , who was standing , tight-lipped behind her , pale face revealing that he had heard who was in the next room .
she turned her back to him and forced herself to walk through the open double doors , completely ignoring the small , hushed groups of people clustered around the room , whispering .
her mind registered that the music she heard was noah , one of the cds he had recorded with the guys for fun at the studio on espaa .
his voice cut her to the heart .
why could n't that really be you ?
a long table was set up in the corner with punch and refreshments .
ridiculous .
who could eat now ?
along the burgundy wall at the opposite side of the living room was an espresso-colored casket , lying on a curled metal stand , closed .
wara 's knees felt weak .
before she could think she threw herself across the tile floor and drew up to the edge of the long , dark casket , spreading her hands out along the smooth wood .
a tear dripped off her chin onto noah 's casket , and wara pressed her forehead into the cool wood , eyes closed .
if the world ended now , that would be just fine .
the shaky voice came from a woman just behind wara .
`` were you one of his friends ? ''
she reluctantly raised her head and stared at the speaker through bleary eyes .
it was noah 's mother : slim and fashionable , wearing a short black suit dress and a string of platinum-colored pearls , bobbed hair dyed blond gave her the appearance of being much younger than she must be .
wara 's gaze shifted behind her and saw the portly , balding man that must be noah 's father .
he seemed at home in an expensive black suit with a sky blue tie .
drops of perspiration trickled down his forehead despite the coolness of the room .
`` yes , '' wara heard herself answer .
the overweight father shuffled uncomfortably forward , glancing around the room as if he would give his entire fortune to be anywhere but here .
he took his place at his wife 's side and tried to focus his attention on wara .
wara ignored the trail left by the tear down her right cheek .
`` are you noah 's parents ? ''
`` yes , we are ?
were ?
his parents . ''
noah 's mother had mascara smears under her emerald green eyes , and wara 's heart flipped , recognizing noah 's eyes in hers .
with a stifled sob , his mother covered her mouth with one manicured hand and wiped away a stray tear with the other .
`` and you must have been a good friend , '' she sniffed .
wara blurted out , `` i was ?
me and noah were ?
i loved him .
i was his girlfriend . ''
yes , for a few minutes , but what did that matter now ?
she had noah 's ring , and she knew that he had wanted to be with her .
noah 's father looked shocked , and his mother burst into tears .
wara could n't miss mr. hearst 's disparaging look that traveled over wara 's rumpled clothing , henna tattoos , nose ring , and bruised face .
surely she did n't look fit to be at a funeral , much less to be the girlfriend of their precious son from a wealthy family .
but noah 's mother just waved her hand at her husband and held two slender white arms out toward wara for an embrace .
mrs. hearst delicately pulled her forward for a hug , and while wara was pressed against her shoulder she noticed a framed photograph on top of the casket .
a clean-cut young man wearing a blue dress shirt and a silk tie smiled confidently from the picture , looking for all the world like a slick lawyer or a successful salesman .
with a gasp , wara realized she was looking at a younger noah , long hair clipped off , clean-shaven and wearing a tie .
what would noah 's parents think if they had seen him how she had known him , with the tattoo and terribly not cool clothes , playing soccer in the dust with school children ?
this is how they wanted him to be , she thought miserably .
this picture must be from when he was studying international business .
next to the larger photograph were two smaller ones , also in gold-gilded frames .
one was a blond boy , about six years old , wearing a star wars t-shirt and grinning at the camera while missing both front teeth .
wara had never seen a photo of noah as a kid .
the other frame showed a chubby baby with bright emerald eyes , stuffed into a starched white suit and staring at the camera while a trail of drool escaped from one side of his rosebud lips .
mrs. hearst let her go , again swiping at tears under her painted eyes .
`` i did n't know he had a girlfriend `` she rasped .
`` he never told us .
oh , we wasted so much time ? ''
noah 's mom broke off , bit her lip , then tried to compose herself .
`` of course i do n't know your parents , but i would like to tell you , on behalf of noah 's parents , whose hearts are broken ? ''
the woman dissolved into tears again and her husband put one hand stiffly on her arm , obviously embarrassed by how his wife was carrying on .
mrs. hearst 's lip curled with anger and she yanked her arm out of his grip .
`` what was your name , dear ? ''
she asked crossly .
wara told her .
`` wara . ''
noah 's mother pronounced the foreign name and then drilled wara with her bereaved eyes , voice shaky and tight .
`` for your parents , leave this awful country and go home .
there 's nothing for you here .
look what comes of all this supposed 'doing good ' !
for the love of god , leave this terrible place ! ''
wara felt shaken by the woman 's emotion , and she wanted to back away , get out of this conversation , go back where she could be closer to noah .
she wondered briefly if the embassy had listened to alejo at all when he told them that the bus had been attacked , and if they had told the hearsts about it .
no one 's here from the embassy , trying to find me to get more information .
the hearsts seem devastated but not furious .
they must not know .
then another hand touched her arm , and she jerked around to see an athletic-looking guy with a pock-marked face and mahogany skin .
a crisp white dress shirt was tucked into worn jeans , and his hair was slicked back with way too much gel .
he addressed noah 's mother .
`` i 'm so sorry , ma'am .
you do n't know me , but my name is hector villanueva and i 'm a volunteer with the sar search and rescue team . ''
he paused , obviously noticing the three confused gringo faces .
`` i was part of the team that went down to the bus accident , '' he clarified , expression grave and serious .
`` this accident ?
upset me so much .
i 've been a volunteer for ten years , but this one really got to me .
i 've been going to the funerals of nearly all of the victims , and i just wanted to tell you , the parents , how sorry i am . ''
mr. and mrs. hearst were staring blankly at the man , and wara realized with a start that they did n't understand a word he was saying .
she numbly translated most of what the sar volunteer had said into english .
mrs. hearst nodded , barely looking at the man , but noah 's father 's face had gone crimson and he lumbered forward , bearing down on hector villanueva .
`` now listen here , '' he growled , swiping at a drop of sweat about to run into his eye .
`` there 's a woman from the embassy here with us , i suppose as a babysitter , but the embassy does n't appear to have any information about anything .
we 've tried for days to get information about the rescue efforts , progress , anything .
and guess what , no one knew anything !
well -- - '' mr. hearst cut his tirade short for a moment as he noticed that wara was translating for the sar worker .
then he ranted on , `` last night , with no warning , we get a call from some missionary who knew our son that he is dead !
well , you were there-can you tell us what has been going on since that accident ?
why did n't they find our son until last night ?
and if they found him before , why the heck did n't anyone tell us anything ? ''
noah 's father 's voice cracked , and he fell silent , swiveling his gaze over to the silent coffin along the wall .
wara felt faint , but translated the general gist back to the man who had been there on the side of the mountain cliff .
looking for noah 's body among the twisted vines and jungle thorns .
noah 's parents wanted to know what they had found .
`` i ca n't do this . ''
she trembled from head to toe , backing away from the three others in the conversation .
`` i ca n't translate this , how he was ? ''
a tight hand clapped her on the shoulder , and wara lifted wild eyes to meet alejo 's , deadly serious and morose .
`` you 've been standing up too long , '' he told her in spanish , and then the grim line of his mouth softened .
`` i 'm going to translate for them .
go sit over there . ''
without waiting to be told a second time , wara hurriedly slipped away from the conversation that had suddenly turned gruesome and found refuge in a tan swivel chair a few feet behind noah 's parents .
she collapsed into it , pulling her feet up to sit cross-legged , and buried her face into her hands .
of course from here she could still hear everything that was said , but at least she would n't be the one to translate it .
wara focused on the sar worker 's spanish instead of alejo 's clipped , perfect english as he translated .
hector villanueva had already launched back into the conversation , seriously stating the facts to answer noah 's father 's questions .
he was describing the process sar , the bolivian volunteer search and rescue department , had used to scale down the rugged terrain , then systematically search for bodies .
they had started , of course , with the charred remains of the bus .
`` we were able to identify all but three of the bus ' passengers from the remains inside the bus , '' the man said , and wara cringed .
she closed her eyes tightly , refusing to allow her imagination to get ahead of the conversation in whether noah had been one of those burned figures trapped inside the vehicle .
`` verifying the identity of these bodies took until yesterday .
the first day we found one of franco salazar 's assistants several hundred meters uphill from where the bus came to rest .
she had already passed away from severe trauma .
the other two missing bodies were not found until yesterday around six p.m. , when the volunteers were just about to go home for the day .
we had been combing the area for two days , but it was n't until we reached a spot nearly a kilometer away from the bus ' exit point from the highway that we found both of them .
obviously they had been thrown from the bus while it was still pretty high up the mountain , to have landed so far away .
one of the men had been dead since approximately early monday morning , according to the autopsy , but the autopsy of the other man , your son , showed that he had passed away about twelve hours before we found the body .
they just called me with the autopsy results . ''
wara 's whole body shook and she pressed her fingers into her forehead .
there was a deathly silence , and then mr. hearst 's indignant voice gasped , `` are you saying that for twenty-four , no for nearly a day and a half after that accident , our son was alive down there in the jungle ? ''
`` yes , sir , that is what the autopsy report showed , '' hector reported , stiffening as if just now realizing that the giant man in front of him was simmering with rage .
`` b..b..but -- -you 're saying that because your 'search and rescue ' team did n't find him sooner , our son died ?
he was alive for nearly two days !
if you had been more competent and found him sooner , he would still be alive ! ''
`` no , sir , i can assure you ? ''
hector 's voice trailed off and he sighed .
`` i was there when we found him .
there were too many broken bones . ''
wara moaned and slumped forward in the chair , feeling hot tears slipping through her fingers .
a death-filled scene flooded her vision : noah , bloodied and broken , lying on the cold jungle floor in the dark , unable to move , with no one to help him .
he had died all alone .
but then a different picture swallowed that one up .
noah , lying on his back , in the middle of an emerald forest clearing , staring up at the tropical birds and butterflies flitting around the peaceful sanctuary .
he could n't get up , but he was singing , quietly , and the songs he sang were only between him and his god , on his way to meet him .
wara forced herself to swallow , then straightened in the chair .
the last scene of noah in the jungle was one she could live with .
a man had started speaking from somewhere in the room , inviting people to come take seats on the folding chairs .
gripping the edges of the chair with both hands to steady herself , wara rose to her feet , ready to sing a last song for noah hearst .
many people went up front to talk about noah , including the bolivian pastor of noah 's church .
the bennesons sat up front , along with the rest of the people from the mission .
dona filomena was there , wearing a dark pollera and cardigan with her signature gray braids .
even tiago showed up , nearly unrecognizable in black dress pants , a starched white dress shirt , and red weepy eyes .
wara sat numbly through it all .
eventually she realized that someone had asked her to come up and sing , and she made her way towards a folding chair off to the side , tripping once and nearly planting her face into the floor before she caught herself , grabbing another chair .
barely noticing her near-accident , wara sat down and pulled the guitar that was propped next to the chair onto her lap .
her fingers curled tightly around the neck , metal strings biting into her flesh .
it was noah 's honey-colored taylor .
they had brought it from the caf .
wara bit her lip , then strummed a chord .
the guitar was perfectly tuned .
she started a song she knew by the band mercy me , that began talking about how everyone says `` you '' are in a better place .
as the chords vibrated out of the taylor , she moved on to the chorus , singing what may have been the truest thing she had said all day : `` i 've never been more homesick than now .
i close my eyes , and i see your face , if home 's where my heart is then i 'm out of place , lord , wo n't you give me strength to make it through somehow , i 've never been more homesick than now . ''
her fingers fell across the strings one last time , sounding the last open-ended chord , and then she rested her forehead on the smooth wood of noah 's guitar .
after a moment , without looking at the many faces who had gathered here to remember her best friend , wara forced herself to put the guitar back in its place .
what she really wanted to do was sling the black guitar strap over her shoulder and walk away , never looking back .
eduardo was coming up front to sing something , however , and she knew he would need the guitar .
wara somehow managed to make it to an empty chair .
`` if home 's where my heart is , then i 'm out of place . ''
the chorus she had just sung rang in her head , even as eduardo and tobias began to sing amazing grace .
oh god , i can feel that so much right now .
why do i have to stay here any longer ?
if noah is with you , i want to be there too , at home .
i do n't think i can stay here one more minute .
leaning heavily forward against the metal back of an empty chair , wara 's sideways gaze fell upon alejo , standing in the back of the room , arms folded across his chest .
she had nearly forgotten about his existence .
his face was red and puffy , and he looked really , really miserable .
she was glad .
he should be miserable .
forever .
because thanks to alejo martir , i surely will be miserable forever .
as wara heard eduardo sing the last line of the hymn , a cold feeling crept over her chest , as if she had put on a sweater that had been sitting outside all night in a montana blizzard .
the feelings of anger she had just been tempted with were gone .
the grief seemed to be gone .
all wara could feel was ?
nothing .
nothing except the desire to go home .
24 sea green everyone else had left the house , and alejo was left in the echoing entryway of some missionaries ' house .
he hunched miserably on a polished wooden chair , listening to the rhythmic tick of a clock from the kitchen off to the left .
wara lay curled up on a black leather sofa in a smaller family room , and she had n't said a word since the rest of the funeral attendees had left .
she seemed to sleeping .
one more hour and we can leave this place and get back to the motel .
alejo groaned and clunked his head against the cool plaster of the wall , envisioning red silk and painted cupids .
as if that 's going to be any better than being here .
knowing the chances were fair to good that the guys had found out about the bus victim 's funeral and would be lurking about outside , alejo had told wara they needed to wait here at the house for two hours after the rest of the people had gone .
then maybe they could sneak out with no one following .
the bennesons ' house was in an upscale neighborhood , across the street from a long , shady park .
pretty soon , alejo would call a radio taxi with dark windows to take them back to their hideous quarters .
the clock kept ticking and alejo closed his eyes , remembering the face of noah 's mother as she and her husband left with the woman from the u.s. embassy and the crew from a funeral home .
alejo had listened in enough to know that the hearsts were going to ship the body back to the united states for burial , and that the embassy was helping them with all the necessary arrangements .
wara 's haunting voice when she sang with the guitar had cut him to the heart .
he had n't been around so many christians since he was a kid , and the experience had been overwhelming .
he thought about what his father had said back at the hostal salta : noah would have forgiven you .
it did n't seem realistic to imagine noah just punching him in the shoulder with a , hey man , do n't worry about it .
it 's all good .
but he was supposed to believe god would forgive him , just like that ?
another comment wara had made sometime during their last few days flashed through his mind : `` jesus said to love your enemies . ''
that was very true-jesus had even said to turn the other cheek when someone hits you .
but did that mean standing there and watching while someone hit a helpless woman or child ?
god , i need help , alejo groaned out loud .
i 'm a mess .
i do n't even know how to talk with you .
i keep thinking i need to go wash the right way before praying and prostrate myself on the ground .
but here i am , without washing , not facing the right direction , just talking to you , slouched on a chair at some gringos ' house .
i need help .
but the chances of alejo meeting someone soon who could help him figure out who he was and why were pretty slim , since he and wara were in the middle of running for their lives .
the funeral was over , and it was time for them to leave bolivia and go to alejo 's family , so they could all start their lives over .
just like that .
alejo realized that the phone was ringing somewhere in the house , one of those annoying , electric sounds that beeped through the air in waves .
it finally shut up , and alejo leaned forward in his chair to peer into the room where wara had collapsed on the couch .
she was still there , facing the wall , huddled inside the long sleeves of her black sweater .
the phone started ringing again , only seconds after it stopped , and it was annoying as heck .
when the caller rang a third time , then a fourth , alejo 's adrenaline picked up .
he rose from the chair on the balls of his feet , doing a quick sweep of vision around the windows of the house .
nothing appeared to be out of the ordinary in the empty yard .
he had already made sure all the doors of the house were locked .
when the sixth , seventh , then eighth call came in , alejo had a sinking feeling that the caller might possibly not be someone looking for the bennesons .
all the phones downstairs appeared to have been disconnected for the funeral , as the only ringing came from somewhere upstairs .
just to be on the safe side , alejo decided to answer the phone .
maybe he could just give some poor gringo directions and put an end to this .
with a last glance at wara , he bolted up the stairs , two at a time , and across a parquet wood floor to where a cordless phone was flashing on a desk .
alejo marched towards the desk and snatched up the receiver , punching the talk button .
`` alo ? ''
`` oh , good , thank goodness ! ''
the cheerful voice on the other end appeared to be speaking around a mouthful of food .
`` alejo , i 'm so glad you finally did me the favor of answering , che .
i was beginning to think i was going to have to come over the walls and risk getting bit in the rear by that yappy white dog in there .
those little poodle things can be quite mean . ''
alejo 's blood chilled as he recognized the voice of gabriel .
`` che , '' he said calmly .
`` where are you ? ''
alejo moved in a crouch towards a plate window overlooking the quiet cobblestone street in front of the house .
a small dog , white curls graying where its belly scraped the grass , was trotting calmly around the spacious front yard .
nothing else in sight was moving .
`` oh , just outside the wall , having a snack .
here , let me move a little bit , there , ok , do you see me ? ''
a pale hand waved into alejo 's line of vision from above the thick concrete wall surrounding the house , and then all of gabriel came into view , backing up farther across the road so he was n't hidden by the wall .
a cell phone was plastered to one ear , and he squinted up at the window where alejo stood .
`` i figured it might take you guys a while to come out , '' he said with a grin , `` but i really did n't feel like waiting any longer .
it took me a little bit to get this number , though . ''
`` how 'd you know the funeral was going to be here ? ''
alejo needed to kill time .
`` facebook , '' gabriel answered , matter-of-factly .
`` you would n't believe how many friends this guy had .
makes me feel kind of bad .
i only have 167 . ''
`` so how did you know we were in here ? ''
was only gabriel outside ?
if that were the case , a dozen ways he and wara could get out of here ran through alejo 's head .
they surely would n't be so stupid , though , as to send only gabriel over to capture him .
`` my thermal imaging goggles . ''
gabriel 's voice was light .
`` there 're all kinds of poky plants in that park across the street .
i think they never cut the grass over there .
great hiding spot .
i can see up to 1000 meters with these things , so that was plenty close enough . ''
alejo saw gabriel , down below , pointing off to the park across the street , darkened with shady trees and deep green vegetation .
`` anyway , i saw two people hiding on the floor of a van that drove in , and figured that was n't the usual way guests arrive at funerals .
the rest , as they say , is history . ''
`` so , '' gabriel continued , blithely , `` this is the way this is going to go down .
benjamin is over at the hotel diplomat , where the deceased 's parents are in their room right now .
there 's an empty office space right across from their big plate glass window , which has the drapes wide open , and benjamin has got all the equipment set up .
if you do n't come out with the girl and come with me , he 'll have to take the guys ' parents out . ''
alejo swore under his breath .
now that he had chickened out about killing wara , they assumed he would n't let noah 's parents die in the middle of this mess , either .
and he would n't .
`` i 'll come out , but i ca n't let you have wara , '' he told gabriel .
`` i 'll go with you and talk to the khan .
she does n't know what 's going on .
leave the parents out of this-they have nothing to do with it .
what 's gotten into you guys ? ''
downstairs , something hissed , smooth wood scraping across tile .
alejo jerked , glancing out the window where gabriel was still on the street .
the sound of a door banging echoed throughout the house and alejo panicked .
wara was going outside !
the phone receiver crashed to the floor as he raced to the stairs and leaped down them , skidding at the bottom and sprinting towards the door .
metal grated and he saw that wara had already opened the door that led to the street and was walking out like a zombie .
the space between the house and the outer wall was wide , and alejo yelled , `` wara , shut the door ! ''
as he ran across the grass to try to reach her .
what was she doing ?
wara disappeared from view out the door , onto the street , and alejo dug up clumps of dirt racing after her .
he pulled up at the open door in the outer wall and took in gabriel and wara , several yards away from the house next to a white delivery truck , staring at each other .
gabriel seemed startled to see her , but then his eyes narrowed when he saw alejo .
wara turned around so her back was facing him , holding out her hands to what alejo saw was a pair of handcuffs in gabriel 's hands .
within two seconds , less then it would have taken for alejo to cross the space between him and his friend , gabriel had the cuffs around wara 's wrists and pushed her inside the delivery truck .
he slammed the heavy door shut with a clang , then alejo heard a beep as gabriel pushed something near the door latch .
numb , alejo started towards gabriel , unable to believe that wara had just disappeared into the truck while he just stood there .
`` we 're friends , che , are n't we ? ''
gabriel looked at alejo and shook his head sadly .
`` or at least we were .
what happened to you ? ''
his eyes flickered as if trying to read alejo 's expression , and then he sighed .
`` because we 're friends , you know that i have the door set to blow up if anyone but me , with the appropriate code , tries to open it .
did you hear that ? ''
gabriel called louder , banging on the metal side of the truck .
`` yes . ''
wara 's single word answer came flatly from inside .
then she added , `` do n't do anything to noah 's parents .
please . ''
`` i have to take you back now , che , '' gabriel told alejo , and his voice was really pained .
`` if we 're not there in another hour , benjamin gets to do his little op .
so do n't try anything on the way , ok ?
do i have to cuff you so you 're not tempted ?
i know you could take me out like a fly . ''
`` let 's go , '' alejo ground out , stalking to the passenger side of the truck and ripping open the door .
he slid inside and closed it , waiting for gabriel to come around and stick the key in the ignition .
without a word , gabriel revved up the truck , guided it around the corners of the peaceful neighborhood , then circled a round-about to merge onto a main avenue .
`` i did n't want to leave all of you , che . ''
alejo decided to start the conversation .
there was probably not much time until they got to wherever the khan and the rest had hidden themselves , and there was so much he wanted to say .
`` i always did what i believed was the right thing , what god would want .
so have you .
well this time , i could n't let her die . ''
alejo knew gabriel understood who he was talking about .
`` it was an accident that she was there .
the right thing was to let her live . ''
`` that 's where i think you are wrong , '' gabriel stated firmly .
`` when we were up there , i told you there could be people on-site who were unrelated to salazar , and you said , and i quote , 'then let them be collateral . '
unquote . ''
gabriel cleared his throat and jerked the steering wheel to the right , leading them along a less traveled road towards the outskirts of town .
`` i kind of freaked out a little , too at the idea of slitting her throat-not a pleasant idea for me , you understand .
but there was no other acceptable option , che !
you know what you 've done . ''
gabriel 's voice turned dark and alejo saw that he was gripping the wheel with white knuckles .
`` she knows everything .
if she 's not dead , she 'll tell .
we do n't even know if you have already tattled and gotten us in a heap of trouble . ''
`` i do n't want all of you to get into trouble , '' alejo said quietly .
`` yeah , well , then you should have not let your emotions get away with you and let ishmael take care of her .
now he 's mad as a hornet .
he ca n't trust you-and you 're the most important cog in the prism in the continent !
i do n't even think i could trust you anymore . ''
gabriel turned his eyes on alejo for a moment , and they flashed the anger of betrayal .
`` gabo , there 's a lot i have to tell you , and since this seems like it could be my last chance , knowing the khan , let me talk , ok ? ''
alejo sank back into the vinyl of the seat and waved one hand as he said , `` i assume you still remember our trip to the tribal area ?
all the bolivian guys , huddled up there near the skirmish zone ? ''
`` yeah , '' gabriel nodded , `` with all that ?
happened before i came home from pakistan , we never really talked about that .
i thought it was amazing , so many guys ready to follow god . ''
`` well i thought it was just plain wrong .
the khan is offering these poor guys scholarships to study , and then they 're just being used as fodder for religious wars .
they 're being blown to pieces , and their families will never even know where they went !
allah loves the poor , so do n't you think it 's wrong to offer the poor a version of islam that will only get them fired up so that someone can send them off to be mujahedeen ? ''
gabriel frowned , opened his mouth , then snapped it shut .
finally he said , `` i ca n't criticize the men who know a whole lot more about our religion and pleasing god than i do , che .
besides , what could be more pleasing to god then doing what those poor guys from the countryside are doing ?
if they stayed here , they 'd live out their lives in poverty , never making a difference at all , not knowing god .
but now they 're getting a chance to make their lives really count .
god 's going to reward them for that .
what 's the big deal if they die ?
they 're going to paradise . ''
alejo glanced sharply at his friend and then back at the road .
`` well , i ca n't just accept what others tell me about religion , because i 'm responsible to god for what i do .
me .
the last few months i 've been reading the bible , and i 've decided it 's not corrupted .
i 'm going to live like what it says is true , and that means following the teachings of jesus . ''
gabriel hit a pothole in the worn gravel road they were following and swore , not even looking at alejo .
`` you ca n't do that . ''
`` i am , '' alejo said evenly .
`` if you believe all those books say , you are not a muslim anymore , '' gabriel sighed .
adobe brick houses with scrawny chickens pecking the grass outside passed by the window , and overhead the truck was shaded by rows and rows of eucalyptus trees , lacy branches swaying in the wind .
gabriel shook his head and then drilled alejo with a serious stare .
`` you 're an apostate ? ''
alejo exhaled and leaned his head back into the seat .
`` listen , che , you are like a brother to me .
i wanted to tell you , but i knew if i said too much i 'd get kicked out of the prism and i might never see you again `` gabriel bit his lip and looked over at alejo , annoyed .
`` che , i 've heard all this christian stuff before , ok ?
i do n't need some man who made the insane claim that he was god to bring me close to god .
that 's blasphemy , anyway-i ca n't believe you would even ?
whatever . ''
gabriel wrinkled his nose , then said , `` the quran tells us everything we need to please god .
and i 've been doing it all .
we are the best of the best , che .
why would we need some person to take away our sins ?
we are serving allah every day .
we 're not unbelievers who do n't follow his laws .
he 's got to accept me . ''
alejo 's heart felt heavy as he heard the last statement come out as an unsure hope .
a picture flashed through his mind of gabriel and himself , lounging lazily on some park bench in the plaza on a sunny coroico afternoon , licking mocha ice cream cones and grinning at the little quechua girls who sang for coins in their red plastic buckets .
alejo was going to lose one of his best friends .
the chances of alejo surviving this next encounter with the khan were slim .
would he ever see gabriel again ?
alejo 's head buzzed , and his throat tightened as he turned to stare at the cows and tall white grass whizzing by outside the van .
gabriel was silent , then jerked the steering wheel hard to the right , veering the delivery truck off the gravel road onto a narrower dirt path under a thick canopy of lacy trees .
alejo knew where they were : pairumani , a country estate that had belonged to simon patio .
patio had been one of the wealthiest men in the world during world war ii , making his fortune through tin .
this house and its gardens and lands were his retreat from his mansion in cochabamba .
farther along the path , a low waterfall gurgled along the edge of the road , running over mossy boulders .
the tree canopy suddenly dropped away , opening up to the breathtaking sight of a spacious field under a sapphire blue sky , white fluffy stalks of wild grain waving in the gentle breeze .
towering over the crops , two stately rows of ponderous palm trees lined a neat dirt road against a backdrop of mountain peaks , right up to an ornate metal gate that was the entrance to the pairumani estate .
alejo raised an eyebrow at his friend , who only turned the truck towards the gate , frowning unhappily .
when alejo had visited this place once before , the fields had been dotted with various volunteer students working on experimental agricultural projects sponsored by patio 's charitable foundation .
a few mornings a week , the caretakers of pairumani opened its gates , with permission from the patio family who now lived outside bolivia , for tourists to visit the beautiful grounds .
now no one was in sight .
the fields were empty and seemingly overgrown and abandoned ; no uniformed guard waited near the gate .
wait ?
there is a guard here .
inhaling sharply , alejo recognized those glinting eyes , malicious when they needed to be .
sauntering over to open the gate , dressed in the olive uniform of a private security guard , was benjamin torres .
`` what have you guys done ? ''
alejo raised an eyebrow , bracing himself as gabriel floored the accelerator and the truck raced inside the gate .
`` oh , no one uses this place anymore , '' gabriel shrugged .
`` they have n't worked on those agricultural projects here in a couple of years , and the patio family is n't scheduled to come stay here for two more months .
you know the khan-always likes to stay in style .
it was either this or some dumpy hostel .
believe me , this is better . ''
gabriel glanced in the rearview mirror as benjamin shut the gate .
`` looks like benjamin is back .
he made good time . ''
`` the guards ? ''
alejo was peering out the window , looking for any sign of the rest of his team .
`` they 're fine , '' gabriel waved away his concern .
`` there were only three , and they 're tied up in a nice cozy room .
we bring them food .
they did n't see our faces , so after a few more days we 'll let them go and they 'll chalk it up to armed robbery .
we 'll take a few little treasures with us to make it look authentic . ''
alejo sighed and put one hand on the door , really anxious to get out of the car .
his mind raced back to wara , still handcuffed in the back of the truck , and he tried to think how he was going to get her out of this mess ?
again .
he deserved to be here ; after all , he had broken the rules and it was only fair to have to pay .
panic wanted to mess with his head , however , about wara .
alejo tapped his foot compulsively against the floor of the truck , waiting for gabriel to park .
benjamin had latched the gate behind them , and he and stalin stared solemnly at the truck as it drove slowly across the manicured lawn .
alejo 's visions of gaining the advantage through his fighting skills died down as he saw what benjamin and stalin gripped casually by their sides .
two silver guns with silencers , glinting in the afternoon sun .
alejo 's shoulders tensed and he waited as gabriel parked the truck in a cluster of a pomegranate trees .
how did everything come to this ?
a few months ago the khan loaded me with presents and i was an honored guest in his house .
last thursday , the guys and i were eating brownies in the caf together , ready for another day at work .
images of the thousands of times alejo had prostrated himself to allah on the ground , barefoot , filled his mind , and he found his heart repeating the prayer , you are great , lord , you are great .
please let me honor you , oh god .
he heard gabriel yank the key out of the ignition and saw him reach for the door .
his friend hesitated , then turned to alejo with a pained look in his eyes .
`` i shot wara back along the road , ok ?
in a little while , i 'm going to have to take this truck out again .
ok , che ?
she can get out and run away . ''
alejo could n't help himself .
he grabbed gabriel 's skinny shoulders and pulled him into one of the manly bear hugs that only true latino men can share , then let him go .
reaching back to rip open the tiny sliding door between the back of the truck and the cab , alejo said , `` wara !
do n't make any noise , ok ?
you 're gon na be alright . ''
then he pushed the little door closed and climbed out of the truck to whatever was waiting for him .
stalin and benjamin were standing behind the truck , weapons obviously loaded and pointed casually in alejo 's direction .
neither of them looked particularly happy ; in fact , stalin looked downright miserable .
alejo nodded in greeting , then looked beyond them to where ishmael khan was waiting , sitting on a bronze-colored bench in the center of the garden , shaded by a lilac flowering tree .
the rest of the neatly-trimmed lawn was dotted with giant bushes that were trimmed to be absolutely round in form , like ridiculous sea-green pincushions .
behind the front yard , the imposing country house rose to the sky , painted cream with an opaque golden trim , windows framed by intricate colonial plaster designs .
a stone path began near the house , leading to a shimmering pond with emerald waters and a circular wooden hut with thatched roof in the center of the pool .
stately snow white swans glided on the surface of the water , skimming the scales of mammoth orange goldfish .
the khan was calmly flipping through a book , which alejo recognized as his bible .
of course ishmael had found it in alejo 's tent .
in light of alejo disappearing with wara , the bible must have only given the khan one more clue as to the reason for alejo 's desertion .
`` and the american ? ''
benjamin 's eyebrows were raised at gabriel .
gabriel waved away his concern and put one hand on his hip , crossly .
`` if the khan wanted her here you should have told me beforehand , because it 's a little late now .
she 's in lake alalay with a couple holes in her head . ''
`` i told you it was n't about her , '' benjamin said to stalin , shooting an amused glance at alejo .
`` there 's something else going on here besides just a sudden case of true love .
he does n't seem to be too disturbed that she 's dead . ''
stalin sighed , glumly , and alejo felt bad for him .
`` he wants to talk to you . ''
stalin jutted his chin in the direction of the bench where the pashto man sat , and gripped his gun tightly , still pointing it at alejo .
then , quieter , he hissed , `` how could you do this , che ?
of course you know what you 've done ? ''
alejo saw benjamin shake his head , face unreadable as usual , hand pointing the gun steady .
`` so , you left the gringo couple alone ? ''
alejo asked calmly , meeting his eyes .
`` as promised , '' benjamin 's mouth tipped up in a dry smile .
`` that would n't have been an extremely pleasant experience for me .
you 're the one who 's in trouble . ''
gabriel 's voice cheerily interrupted them .
`` i 'm coming in a sec , guys .
i 've got ta get my gun out of the truck . ''
thank god he said he 'll let her go .
alejo let stalin and benjamin frame him and walk him towards ishmael khan .
he kept up the quick pace gladly , because every step took them farther away from the white truck that held wara .
`` what about lzaro ? ''
he asked .
`` have n't seen him around . ''
`` he asked for time off , '' stalin said tightly .
`` he would n't admit it , but this whole thing had him upset .
she being his old girlfriend and all .
you 're an idiot to do this to us , you know that , che ? ''
stalin continued , whispering , sweat trickling down his temple .
`` you compromised everything . ''
then he fell silent as the three of them pulled up in front of ishmael khan , waiting with the bible across one knee and a gun and silencer resting on the other .
25 crimson wara was trying to muster the will to raise herself from sprawled on the truck floor in handcuffs to sitting , when a little window at the front of the truck slid open with a whoosh .
`` do n't move , wara , '' alejo 's voice ordered .
`` you 're gon na be alright . ''
then , just as quickly , the little door closed again , followed by two slamming vibrations of the truck as gabriel and alejo apparently left it and shut the doors .
her mouth was left hanging open , never having the chance to respond to alejo 's hurried instructions .
his words rang in her head and she let her mouth snap shut , trying to relax and not make a sound from where she lay sideways , arms twisted behind her in the cuffs .
wara could make out the sound of male voices outside , but they were muted and the sound did n't carry well through the metal truck .
she ignored the burning in her arms , watching the dented white metal door .
she expected the men to come bursting in any second , this time to kill her for sure .
the truth was , at the moment the whole idea did n't scare her as it should .
wara had just come from noah 's funeral , where she had seen his parents weeping over his coffin ; she was too numb to resist .
the voices died away , followed by a few electronic beeps .
something that sounded like rusting metal scraped painfully across both of the doors , and then a crack of daylight breached the darkened interior of the truck .
squinting , wara made out gabriel 's narrow face , framed by a halo of light .
he climbed into the truck , pulled the door mostly closed behind him and marched towards wara .
she cringed , but gabriel just squatted on the truck bed next to her and put a finger to his lips .
`` ssssshhhhh ! ''
he cautioned , throwing her a warning look .
then the bombshell : `` i 'm letting you go . ''
immediately on his feet again , gabriel strode to the back of the truck and grabbed a black duffel bag , which he unzipped .
wara blinked at him , wondering if he was serious .
she twisted her head to follow gabriel 's movement and then froze as she saw him yank a gun out of the bag .
hands steady , he lifted a handful of oblong bullets from one pant pocket and began stuffing them into the gun .
`` i ca n't believe i 'm doing this , '' he muttered , then whirled the gun 's chamber shut .
gabriel bent down next to her again , glanced at the truck door , then whispered crossly , `` i told them i already killed you , so do n't make any noise unless you want me-and of course , you -- - to be blown away like poor alejo is about to be . ''
wara 's head spun and unexplained panic filled her chest .
`` i 'll be back pretty soon , i assume .
when we come back , hide under those tarps over there if you want to live .
i have to leave the door open or they might suspect . ''
he grabbed wara 's wrists and unlocked her handcuffs .
`` th-thank you , '' she stammered .
gabriel looked down at her from where he stood , face slick with sweat .
`` do n't thank me .
alejo is in charge , but i 'm the one who put the explosives on the bus .
alejo does n't know how to do that stuff . ''
lifting his chin , gabriel turned his back on her and stomped back to the door of the truck , causing the whole vehicle to sway .
wara felt sick , watching him go out of the corner of her eye .
gabriel left only a small crack of light shining into the truck , and with the doors no longer tightly sealed , she could make out the voices from outside , louder and more intense .
wara crawled at a snail 's pace over to the crack of light and pressed her nose gingerly against it , trying to judge how far away she was from the other men .
the truck seemed to be parked under a bunch of trees , and through the leafy branches she could make out a group of four men standing maybe fifty feet away .
she recognized the three with guns from before -- -stalin , benjamin , and gabriel , who had just shocked her by saying he was not going to kill her .
lzaro was nowhere in sight .
alejo , in the center of them all , was the target of all of the guns ' aim .
sitting peacefully on a bench in the beautiful garden of pairumani sat the older guy with salt-and-pepper hair , wearing a navy cardigan sweater and pressed khaki pants , like the perfect gentleman .
what are we doing at pairumani ?
are n't there any tourists around ?
she had been here a few times on the weekend with friends , once with noah .
the little wara could see of the pristine garden surrounding the mansion was empty , except for the small group of muslim men .
she realized that she felt relief the martirs were out of the country , away from all this danger .
but then her joy tempered as she thought , if they kill alejo , who will make sure these guys do n't find nazaret 's family ?
wara blinked and everything in front of her shimmered .
god , are they really going to kill him ?
her hands shook and she kept them away from the open door , eyes glued to the scene unfolding outside .
the man with the grandfather face-ishmael-was speaking accented spanish .
`` stalin has been trying to tell me that this was a case of youthful indiscretion , that you were attracted to this girl ? ''
alejo shrugged , appearing no more concerned then if they were discussing what color to paint the foyer .
`` it could have been true , but that 's not what happened . ''
his strong voice carried across the garden .
`` i just did n't think it was right to kill her when god obviously let her survive .
it was n't what god wanted .
i caused something , and i 'm willing to pay the penalty for it .
i had to do what 's right and try to help her . ''
`` well , now that 's all useless anyway , since the end result is that she is dead and the rest of us have all been quite inconvenienced .
ah , alejo ! ''
ishmael 's voice sounded sad and he stood up , walking to stand directly in front of nazaret 's brother .
wara saw that the flash of metal in ishmael 's hand was a gun .
`` you were a nephew to me , my own family !
i took you in ? ''
the older man 's voice cut off as he glanced away , dramatically .
`` in my life i have seen so much betrayal , so many that i could not trust .
how can i stand this , that i ca n't even trust you , who have been like my own nephew ?
you must tell me the truth , son . ''
ishmael sighed audibly .
`` have you really betrayed us ?
have you told others about the prism ?
about my work ? ''
`` i have n't told anyone anything the least bit useful to them at all , ishmael , '' alejo replied calmly , as if trying to reason with the other men .
`` you are all like family to me .
i do n't want anything to happen to any of you .
all i did was try to take the girl away so you would n't kill her .
i simply saw a situation where i had to do what i thought was right . ''
this seemed to make ishmael very happy , and he raised both arms in the air , a smile plastered on his face .
`` excellent !
i do n't know why i should believe you , but i have known you since you were almost a child , alejo .
i believe you .
so then , even now , we could talk , we could find a way to bring you back .
you know all the ways of islam .
allah will forgive you . ''
then gabriel stepped forward , both hands steadying the gun wara had seen him take from the truck .
his pale face was twisted but his eyes narrowed with determination .
`` he 's an apostate , ishmael .
he told me himself .
he ca n't come back . ''
the change was astonishing .
wara watched as ishmael 's face crumpled , then darkened , until he was left glaring at alejo with fury .
whirling around , he grabbed an object from a bench nearby and the sound of ripping pages knifed through the air .
a book .
wara squinted to see better , then realized it was the same arabic bible she had seen in alejo 's tent that night .
the onion-skin pages were fluttering to the grass , torn by ishmael 's furious hand .
`` is that necessary ? ''
alejo asked grimly .
`` you would destroy a book that even the quran calls holy ? ''
ishmael tossed the destroyed book over his shoulder and glowered at alejo , breathing heavily .
`` when i heard you say you did n't mean us any harm , i assumed that my suspicions about you leaving our religion could n't be true .
we found this in your tent , but i told the others that it could n't mean anything . ''
the older man 's voice was hurt and angry .
`` i wo n't believe it until i hear it from your own lips .
are you a christian ? ''
`` i believe jesus is the son of god , the savior , '' alejo said .
stalin looked up at the sky , as if in defeat , and benjamin shook his head .
gabriel kept his grip tightly on his gun , staring at alejo , pallid .
ishmael khan took three clipped steps forward and rammed the gun he held against alejo 's forehead with an echoing click .
`` even with this betrayal , i wanted to take you back , alejo martir .
say the word , and i 'll take you back again , to be one of us .
say you will leave this blasphemy , that god has a son .
say you will return to islam and no longer follow jesus . ''
alejo looked back at him for a moment and then loudly said , `` no . ''
wara had never seen one moment pass so quickly .
alejo was on the ground seemingly before the shot even roared .
wara stared in horror at the sickly crimson mist that hung over his body , crumpled on the grass .
ishmael had n't even had time to lower the gun , and alejo was gone .
`` oh no , oh no , oh no ! ''
wara looked one way , then the other , whispering frantically .
she forced herself to focus on the scene outside again .
alejo martir was still sprawled on grass that was a deep crimson .
he was dead .
she had seen a man die .
and they are coming back here , to the truck , with his body .
that next thought beat urgently against her dazed brain , and she tried to focus .
gabriel and stalin were pulling alejo onto a gray wool blanket .
ishmael khan wandered off towards a more shaded part of the garden .
gabriel and stalin began to haul the blanket slowly across the grass towards the truck .
something foul tickled the back of wara 's throat and she choked down the urge to gag .
feeling faint , she crawled in slow motion under the canvas tarps gabriel had pointed out and tried not to move .
but she was shaking .
with every breath she felt like she was making the whole truck tremble .
the truck doors clanged open and someone grunted as the truck swayed .
they were going to put his body in here .
with her .
stalin 's voice echoed around her , crackly and breaking .
`` i ca n't believe this .
how could he be so stupid ?
i do n't think i can do this . ''
`` the worst is over , '' gabriel said , sounding quite sick as well .
`` it 's our job .
we just do what we have to do , stalin . ''
`` it 's alejo ! ''
stalin hissed , tone suggesting he wanted to yell .
wara heard a fist slam against the inside wall of the truck near the door .
the floor bounced as they stepped to the ground and both doors slammed shut , leaving the truck 's interior in utter darkness .
the sound of the two voices moved around the front of the truck , obviously still in heated discussion , and then the muffled sound of a door shutting and the truck roared to life .
gabriel , or whoever was at the wheel , was driving like a bat out of hell , nearly throwing wara into the corner of the truck every time they took a skidding turn .
she supposed they were driving away to get rid of the body , and the thought was horrible .
she had n't liked alejo much , but he was nazaret 's brother .
somehow , in the middle of all this mess , he had saved her life .
her stomach churned , complicated by the wild motion of the delivery truck .
she kicked the heavy tarps off her body , desperate for fresh air .
it was really dark inside the truck , and that was probably a good thing , because the thought of looking over and seeing alejo covered in blood next to her was terrifying .
but finally she could n't resist .
she slowly turned her head to one side and made out a still form next to her .
very , very still .
they had left him there on his stomach , eyes staring at her in the darkness .
his curly hair was wet and sticky and blood splattered over one ear and ran down his chin to pool on the wool blanket .
she shivered and turned her eyes back to the darkened ceiling , breathing deeply .
the sound of her gasping breaths echoed in slow motion around the interior of the truck , slow and rasping .
then wara 's skin crawled as she heard a low moan , and the tickle of breath across her cheek sent her scrambling into the corner , arms wrapped around her knees .
was someone else here ?
the shallow breathing continued , shuddering in slow puffs of air around the truck , and wara knew it was n't hers .
she was holding her breath , heart in her throat .
the truth came to her all of a sudden and she crashed forward onto her knees , palms spread out on alejo 's back .
his shoulder blades shifted upwards , then fell .
he was breathing .
she waited for what seemed like an eternity until alejo 's back rose and fell again , a rasping , choking sound that sent millipedes racing up her back .
he 's still alive .
wara threw herself down on her stomach next to alejo and whispered , `` can you hear me ? ''
no answer .
she forced herself to feel for the wound on his head , but could n't find any place where blood seemed to be spurting , nowhere that she could put pressure on the stop the bleeding .
`` alejo , can you hear me ?
it 's wara ! ''
she was confused to find that she was crying .
how could alejo have survived that ?
i saw him shot point-blank in the head !
she had to tell the guys up front .
alejo needed a hospital .
wara paused , imagining herself kicking the wall of the truck 's cab like a madwoman to get gabriel 's attention .
stalin does n't know i 'm alive back here , and i do n't know how badly he wants me dead .
and if either of them finds out alejo is alive , they could come back here and just finish the job .
sweat pricked wara 's armpits .
the vehicle spun to a skidding stop and two doors slammed .
wara braced herself next to alejo , waiting like a deer caught in the headlights for the truck doors to open .
time was up for any kind of decision ; they were coming back here .
a scraping of metal , then the truck filled with shafts of light , filtered through shadowy eucalyptus branches waving over the truck outside .
wara saw that they were stopped near the side of the road , still in the countryside .
the two guys peered into the truck , expressions grim .
`` he 's still alive ! ''
wara blurted out , holding out a hand towards alejo and realizing it was smeared with blood .
she scrubbed her hand frantically on her black pants .
`` he 's your friend !
take him to the hospital .
there 's still time ! ''
gabriel regarded alejo with pinched lips ; stalin 's mouth gaped open , taking in first alejo lying there , then wara next to him .
`` i told stalin that you were back here , '' gabriel clipped .
`` he 's a nice guy anyway , kind of a pushover .
i thought maybe he would help me .
he noticed that alejo was still alive on the ground at pairumani . ''
`` thank god he 's still ?
we 've got to hurry , wara . ''
stalin 's voice was heavy .
`` we 're taking him to univalle hospital-it 's close to the lake where we 're supposedly leaving him , and then the khan is waiting for us at the airport .
we 've got to hurry , or he 'll suspect .
and it 'll be too late . ''
stalin blanched and turned away from the sight of his friend covered in blood .
`` wara . ''
gabriel snapped his long fingers , calling her attention back .
`` when we get to univalle , we ca n't stay .
we 're going to drop him and you and get away as fast as we can .
you 've got to run , ok ?
invent something to tell the doctors , but do n't tell them the truth .
if you tell anyone about us , the authorities and media will find out .
and if they find out , the khan and everyone else will know you and alejo are not dead .
you understand . ''
gabriel had been speaking quickly but concisely .
he suddenly slowed down and his shoulder sagged .
`` please help him .
he did this for you . ''
gabriel waved his hand unsteadily at alejo 's lifeless form , then looked back at wara once more with tortured eyes .
`` hurry up ! ''
stalin said loudly , and then slammed one of the doors .
the other reverberated like thunder as it too was shut heavily , and then footsteps running on gravel sounded outside .
with a gentle jerk , the truck sprinted back into motion , towards cochabamba and life for alejo .
an eternal fifteen minutes or so dragged by as wara braced herself in the pitch darkness , trying not to be thrown on top of alejo by the urgent driving maneuvers of his friends .
she left a palm on alejo 's back .
finally , the delivery truck careened around a last corner and came to a screeching halt , causing wara to bang a shoulder against the metal side .
running footsteps , and then the doors to the truck were opened , letting in florescent light from an overhead street lamp .
the sun had already disappeared , and the sky was deep blue .
`` univalle , '' stalin 's scratchy voice said , face etched with stress .
he and gabriel leaped into the truck and began to carefully pull the blanket with alejo 's prostrate form towards the door .
`` still breathing ? ''
stalin asked wara .
she nodded and scrambled up after them , leaping out onto what she saw was the sidewalk of the hospital .
she had heard of this university teaching hospital , located near the poorer south of the city .
five tan , modern-looking stories rose out of an adobe house neighborhood , and the truck had stopped right in front of the main entrance .
no one was visible at this time of night , but a guard shack just inside the entrance told wara that someone might soon appear to see what was going on in front of the hospital .
gabriel and stalin heaved alejo and blanket to the ground as gently as they could , then whirled to face wara .
`` go with god , '' stalin muttered , covering his eyes with his hands .
then he dashed to the passenger side of the truck .
gabriel was already half in the driver 's side , but leaned back to whisper , `` go !
run ! ''
the truck pealed away in a cloud of dust , rounding the corner at the end of the short street at break-neck speed .
alejo 's ribcage rose shakily , then he gagged and shuddered into the wool blanket .
here in the dim street light , wara could see the blood already starting to dry , plastered along one cheek , matting his hair .
his eyes had closed .
a hospital guard in a navy uniform stepped questioningly toward her from the shack , eyeing the form on the ground .
wara ran .
`` please , help me ! ''
she cried to the guard , then ran past him into the near-empty waiting room where she saw a door with large red letters : emergencias .
`` help , somebody help , please ! ''
yelling to anyone in sight , wara pleaded for help for the man who had caused noah 's funeral .
26 pale blue the pillow beneath her head was prickly with feathers , the pale blue cotton blanket meant to be soft and comforting .
but wara shivered on the narrow hospital bed all night , sleeping barely a wink between nocturnal nurse visits and the constant beeping of the blood pressure machine .
alejo was alive .
he was lying nearly motionless on the other bed in the hospital room , chest faintly rising and falling under a matching pale blue blanket .
a thick ream of gauze was plastered around his head , covering the wound where the doctors claimed the bullet had narrowly missed his brain .
but that was impossible ; wara had seen the gun pressed point-blank against the center of alejo 's forehead , then fire .
he should n't be alive .
and he might not be for much longer .
`` for now your fianc is stable , but in a coma , '' dr. ortega had told her seriously last night , wadding used latex gloves in the pocket of his lab coat after emerging from the emergency room .
remembering gabriel 's ominous words of warning not to let anyone find out she and alejo were still alive , wara had told the doctor she was engaged to the man who 'd been shot in the head .
they were tourists here from the u.s. , and had been robbed at gunpoint in the country near pairumani .
dr. ortega looked at her over gold-rimmed glasses and rubbed the bridge of his nose with thick , hairy fingers .
`` we 're not out of the woods , yet , by any means .
the bullet 's shock waves could have serious repercussions .
i 'm going to be honest with you .
if your fianc would need brain surgery , there 's no way we can do it here .
an airlift to chile or argentina would take too long .
stay with him tonight in the extra bed in the room ; if he 's going to pull through we should know by the morning . ''
and now it was morning ; crisp white light filtered in through the blue checked curtains of the hospital room .
a matronly nurse in a tri-cornered hat and thick stockings was shoving a glass thermometer under alejo 's tongue and smoothing the covers over his shoulders .
as if he would have been able to mess them up somehow ; nazaret 's brother was as motionless as he had been sprawled there on the ground at pairumani .
but he 's still alive .
dr. ortega had said that if alejo made it til the morning , his chances were better .
wara sat up groggily on the bed and turned toward him , eyes stinging as she took in the bloodied bandage above one closed eye .
i have to call the martirs , she realized .
the idea brought a new chill of shock .
how could she tell them what had happened , that the son they had just found as a killer had been shot and could die ?
and that she had seen the whole thing ?
feeling sick , wara ignored the matronly nurse with clogs and staggered wordlessly into the hall .
clean white tiles spread before her , and the air was ripe with the scent of clorox and chamomile tea cooling on breakfast trays .
wara stumbled to the silver elevator and punched a button to head down , desperate to get some fresh air .
in the pocket of her black pants , she fingered the fat wad of boliviano bills she had removed from alejo 's pants before the nurses carried him into the emergency room .
it should be enough to last for awhile ; for sure it was enough to make a call to the martirs ' cell phone in lima .
the doors dinged open on the main floor , but as soon as wara 's eyes hit the lobby she nearly doubled over , remembering the scene last night when she ran across the tiles screaming for help .
without stopping , wara did a one eighty and headed down the hall , towards the back of the hospital and away from the lobby .
plastic olive chairs lined the scuffed walls , filled with women in polleras and children licking suckers .
wara eyed them all blankly , forcing herself to put one foot in front of the other , really hoping there was going to be a back exit to this hospital .
and outside the exit , some quiet , grass-covered spot where she could curl up and wail , possibly until next week .
it was still early ; the call to the martirs was going to have to wait just a little bit more .
the creaky voice calling to her in quechua took her totally unaware .
`` imajnaya kasanki ?
how are you , wara ? ''
wara planted her flip-flops in the center of the hall and whirled around , eyes wild .
who knew her here ?
she was supposed to be dead .
the navy cardigan sweater and thin gray braids were nothing out of the ordinary in this row of quechua women awaiting the doctor , but the crinkled black eyes regarding wara immediately flashed familiar .
doa filomena , the elderly lady who worked at caf amara !
wara felt her shoulders slump with relief and she took the few faltering steps over towards the older woman , overwhelmed to see someone from her old life .
her old life , before the trip to coroico , before disaster .
wara slowly leaned forward to grasp doa filomena 's forearm , mumbling the usual quechua greeting .
the woman smiled , dispersing a legion of crow 's feet across her copper cheeks .
`` i have been needing to have some tests done for a while , '' she was saying in quechua , `` and since the caf is closed today i am taking advantage of the time . ''
wara swallowed hard .
caf amara , vestiges of another dimension .
`` the caf is closed ? ''
she repeated .
her voice faded to a whisper as she asked , `` why ? ''
`` you do n't know ? ''
doa filomena 's rheumy eyes flickered , then she cocked her head to one side .
`` of course you know !
they said you were on the bus as well , that bus that had the accident .
this whole week we prayed for you , and that boy .
we prayed for you so much .
what am i thinking , how could i forget that !
they said that you had been found and that you were all right .
but then yesterday i went to work , to peel potatoes and make the humintas , and they said that the caf was closed until next week , because they found that poor boy had died and gone to glory . ''
wara 's words stuck in her throat .
i ca n't talk about noah , or i 'm going to throw myself into her arms and cry .
her knees trembled beneath her .
and then she heard herself say something she never would have expected .
`` doa filomena , can you please pray for another friend of mine ? ''
the word 'friend ' was spoken rather tightly .
`` he was shot in the head .
the doctors think he might not live . ''
`` oh , that is serious ! ''
doa filomena shook her head slowly , thin gray braids scratching her worn sweater .
`` we must pray for this poor boy , too .
sometimes , when i am not working , i come here to the hospital to pray for people .
and if i can not come , i will remember to pray for your friend at church . ''
wara felt some kind of relief that filomena would probably be waving her hands around and praying for alejo , because right now , she could n't .
all she could do was sit there and watch him , to see if he would live or die .
fighting back the bitterness stinging her throat , wara said goodbye to doa filomena and made a beeline for the back door of the hospital .
an ample concrete square shaded by a balcony preceded the hospital 's delivery area , currently completely empty .
filomena 's words echoed through wara 's head : `` they found out that poor boy had died and gone to glory . ''
barely stifling a cry of grief , wara flopped to the ground behind a huge clay planter and curled into a ball .
sometime in the afternoon , wara forced herself up from the ground .
she wandered the dusty neighborhood and called the martirs on the brand new cell phone alejo had bought for them .
she could n't call them on her own new cell phone , because the thing only worked for local calls .
by the time she left the viva call center across from univalle , dusk had darkened to full-blown night .
few people passed the hospital on the unlit sidewalks .
wara sighed deeply and headed across the street to the hospital , resigned to spend one last night here before joining the martirs in lima .
yes , she felt bad for alejo ; he was up there all alone , life hanging in the balance .
but he was n't hers to care for , not by a long shot .
she needed some time , needed to be close to people she actually liked .
the roll of red boliviano bills she had pilfered from alejo were more than enough to make it to lima .
with her dark coloring , she 'd likely make it across the border on the bus without showing id .
she had also called her parents again from the call center , and they would wire money to lima for her and arrange for a plane ticket back to the u.s. home .
but not really .
this had been her home .
i loved this city .
i never wanted to leave .
but now cochabamba seemed full of unknown stalkers and haunted memories .
for the first time since she arrived in bolivia five years ago , wara wanted to go home .
chest still tight with emotion , wara exited the elevator upstairs and turned towards the room she shared with comatose alejo .
the halls were dim and empty and a faint , urgent beeping drilled the walls .
from the direction of alejo 's room .
wara swallowed hard , just as the buxom nurse from this morning pushed past her , practically tearing up the tiles in her white clogs .
wara froze , then hurried after her with clipped steps , as the nurse dove into the open door where wara had left alejo .
she ducked inside to find alejo convulsing on the bed and the blood pressure machine going wild .
dr. ortega had his back to wara , punching a syringe into the plastic of alejo 's iv bag .
five or six nurses in white were framing the bed , grim and sober .
every single set of eyes flickered to wara as she entered , and none of the gazes were friendly .
`` what 's happening ? ''
she asked stupidly , knowing they all must hate her for disappearing the whole day while her fianc was hovering between life and death .
`` he 's dying ! ''
the nurse with the clogs snapped , then turned back to alejo .
`` it 's the swelling . ''
dr. ortega 's face shone slick with sweat above a bushy black beard .
`` it 's gotten worse , making him convulse .
his heart 's racing .
it 's like i told you , seorita .
the only way to relieve the swelling is to operate .
we ca n't do that here . ''
wara wandered closer , ignoring the cool glances of the nurses .
alejo had stopped shaking and lay flat on the bed , face the color of white clay .
`` he 's dying ? ''
she repeated , moving so close one hand touched the edge of the bed near alejo 's elbow .
`` the bullet did n't enter his brain , '' the doctor said , speaking loudly over the frantic beep of alejo 's heart rate .
`` but the impact still caused this swelling .
it 's much worse than we thought .
his heart ca n't keep this up much longer .
i 'm sorry . ''
wara did n't even look at the doctor , but her face crumpled as she watched alejo .
i should leave .
just leave .
i do n't have to watch this .
but her heart surged to her throat , vibrating with what she realized was compassion .
she clutched the bed sheet with white knuckles .
alejo 's heart rate accelerated further and his back arched .
and then his eyes flew open , leaving wara absolutely shocked , staring into a sea of hazel .
he was sitting , suddenly , gasping and leaning forward onto the pale blue blanket .
the monitor 's beeping dove from a constant beep to deep electronic thuds .
and stayed that way .
dr. ortega had flown to the bedside and was leaning over alejo 's shoulder , trying to support him .
behind the gold-rimmed glasses , the doctor 's eyes were round and about to pop .
`` his heart rate 's normal , '' he stammered .
`` where did it ?
what happened to the tachycardia ? ''
the nurses had drawn back and were gaping at alejo sitting up on the bed .
and then they jumped .
because alejo grinned .
at wara .
it was weak and lop-sided , and looked out of place on his pale face .
but the smile caused his eyes to spark , and he glued his gaze on wara , who gawked back at him , knee propped against the side of his bed .
`` you ! ''
he croaked .
then coughed and tried another grin .
`` he told me i would n't remember your name .
does n't matter .
they 're coming for us .
two of them .
and he said we 're just supposed to go , and do whatever they say .
come with me ! ''
and then the grin faded and alejo hunched farther over , as if just now feeling the pain traveling down the nerve pathways from his head .
`` what hospital is this ? ''
he moaned , leaning over onto his knees with head in his hands .
`` i remember everything .
i ca n't believe i 'm here . ''
the nurses rushed towards him , firm hands admonishing the patient to lie back down .
wara forced her mouth to shut and backed up a few feet from the bed .
she ripped her gaze away from alejo towards the doctor , who was still watching wide-eyed and incredulous .
`` i ca n't believe ?
i was sure he was ?
dying . ''
as if realizing he had just said that out loud , dr. ortega snapped his mouth shut and rubbed his temple .
`` this is really unusual .
we 'll have to run some more tests .
i 'd say we 're not out of the woods yet , after that little speech our patient just made .
he 's obviously delirious .
it 's to be expected with the brain trauma . ''
delirious .
of course .
`` they 're coming for us ? ''
that had sounded like a line out of terminator .
a skinny nurse butted into wara 's line of sight , cutting off the conversation with the doctor .
`` doctor , '' she clipped nervously .
`` the patient he ?
ca n't see . ''
wara blinked , staying where she was as dr. ortega moved towards alejo and tried to check his sight .
`` you ca n't see ? ''
the doctor asked with concern .
alejo was lying still on the rumpled pillow , eyes opened narrowly .
`` i ca n't see anything , '' he answered .
`` there you go . ''
dr. ortega turned his head towards wara .
`` it 's still the swelling .
considering the loss of sight and that delirious talk , i 'm going to have the lab come up and do some more tests right away . ''
but he looked right at me .
when he woke up , wara thought , stunned .
that grin , half-crazed but out of his mind with delight about something .
he knew she was there .
and now he could n't see .