another seemed to join it , then another and another until the noise was unbearably loud .
sick , quiet laughter sounded all around us .
it giggled and laughed in amusement , shrieking at us .
the laughter stopped , but the rattle did n't .
but whatever it was , it surrounded us .
the four of us pressed together .
this is the prey ?
a rake-like voice cackled .
this is nothing !
i saw seth draw his sword and the rest of us readied our weapons .
i gripped my bow so hard that i was afraid it might break in two .
i heard more screechy laughter .
easy kill , another agreed .
no challenge , something else piped up .
the king under estimates our abilities .
it laughed .
a voice hissed , we will show him .
this was seriously starting to freak me out .
it was like the dead were talking to me , and i shivered .
then i saw them .
they slithered from the shadows of the trees and bushes .
there hundreds of them , each easily my height .
they were covered in black , grey green scales that were each the size of my hand .
they were layered on its body like plated armor .
their beady dark , red eyes sent shivers down my spine .
i slung my bow back over my shoulder and grabbed my hunter 's knife from its sheath on my side .
one stopped and raised its head up towards me .
it opened its mouth to reveal rows of sharp , yellow fangs .
a chuckle escaped its mouth .
what are you going to do with that , half-ling ?
it said with a voice that sent needles into my skin .
a knife wo n't do a thing against something like me .
i almost listened to the thing and started to lower my weapon but i caught myself .
my hands started to shake .
its eyes glistened with hunger .
you ca n't even hold a weapon .
so how are you going to save your friends ?
i did n't know what it was talking about until i looked over .
seth was stiff and frozen , his eyes following one of the snake creatures that was climbing its way up his leg .
it twisted itself around his arm and brushed onto his neck .
seth swung his sword at the back of the snake but there was a flash and it sliced his arm instead .
he winced and dropped his weapon .
the snake had wrapped around his neck and was squeezing .
i gripped my knife but stopped when the creature snickered from the ground .
i would n't do that if i were you , it said .
that would n't be wise .
why ?
i demanded .
it would n't be right to help seth ?
it hissed in laughter .
no , half-ling .
if you have n't realized it yet , we change our shapes .
your friend already hurt himself learning that .
seth was n't looking so good .
he was bent over and was grabbing at his neck .
i then realized that the snake was now a smaller brown colored snake and had its whole body wrapped completely around his neck .
i had an awful feeling that i could n't help seth without hurting him .
i was helpless .
emily and jason were farther off fighting their own swarm .
i could see from here that they were slowly losing too .
emily continued to try to fry the creatures or knock them away with air , but it was n't really working .
i kept seeing jason 's knives fly off into the woods , or sink into the ground , instead of hitting their mark .
and now half-ling , it whispered with joy , you die .
it lunged up at me .
i had a sudden feeling inside and i stabbed at the creature .
it tried to change forms to avoid the knife 's path but somehow my knife stabbed it anyway .
it withered and then went still .
i gasped as the body fell to the ground and even some of the creatures , around stopped .
they murmured among each other , she killed a syphon !
she killed one of us .
so the awful creatures were called syphons ?
what did they want ?
i made a mental note to tell emily about this .
that is , if all of us didnt die first .
they screeched in anger and i felt their eyes on me .
every single one was full of burning hatred .
but i ignored the feeling and focused on seth .
his eyes locked on mine as he wheezed and he sent me a clear message , help .
not that i needed his permission anyway , it 's just seth never asked for help .
i , again , suddenly knew the syphon 's weakness but i did n't know why or how .
i could sense some dark black area on the neck just like a target dot .
i stabbed it and the creature gave a dying hiss , falling to the ground too .
seth rubbed his neck and grabbed his sword .
thanks jazell .
no problem , i said .
want to rescue the others ?
seth grinned , sure , jason is n't going to be happy about me saving his butt .
well he can deal , i said and walked quickly towards emily and jason .
we better hurry .
i reached emily in a few , quick strides , stabbing some syphons that were trying to attack her .
she looked up at me and opened her mouth to ask me how the heck i did that but i shook my head .
i 'd explain the unexplainable later .
aim for the neck !
i shouted to the both of them .
it 's their weak point .
they both nodded in agreement .
jason spun around and began to stab them as i suggested .
he ducked and i say their number start to drop because of his quick reflexes .
the swarm 's size was reduced to half .
the syphons were starting to look uneasy , hesitating before they flung themselves at us .
it did n't matter to me .
retreat !
one of the voices yelled .
fall back !
they gave one more angry hiss at us and disappeared into the woods .
the bushes and trees rattled and then the woods were silent .
i could hear everyone 's heavy breaths as we turned to face each other .
well , actually everyone turned to me .
so , i said and wiped the sweat off my knife 's handle , that was something , was n't it ?
emily put her hands on her hips .
jazell , how the heck did you know how to kill those things ?
she shook her head .
what were those things ?
syphons , i said .
i do n't know how i knew where to stab them .
i just did , alright ?
it was weird .
seth shook his head and leaned against a tree .
how come you get some random power when the rest of us do n't ?
he gave me a fake pout .
it 's not fair .
i leaned against the tree next to him and rammed my elbow into his side .
he winced and i grinned .
i did n't ask for the power , seth .
but it did save our butts so i 'm happy , i magically gained it .
well i hope i get some cool power too , emily said and stretched .
whatever , jason said and twirled a knife in his hand .
he seemed to go back to say-a-few-words-and-then-say-nothing-which-drives-everyone-crazy .
emily made a face at him .
wow , thanks so much for the support , jason .
that speech was incredible .
jason stuck his tongue out .
you 're welcome .
one day , she mumbled .
one darn day ... emily , are you okay ?
i asked .
her head shot up and she gave me a big smile .
yup , never better .
i 'm just having a minute to myself .
okay ...
i trailed off .
seth walked over to join us .
we should get moving and find somewhere else to stay .
if we stay and argue in the forest , something worse is bound to find us .
right , lead the way , i said and pushed off the tree .
seth nodded and i walked beside him as he led us , once again , through the woods .
emily and jason were talking quietly about something which gave us both the opportunity to talk .
you think kojas sent them ?
i mumbled to him and pushed a branch away .
he looked at me from the corner of his eye .
obviously , why else would they say that the 'king ' would underestimate them ?
you make a good point , i said .
why did the syphon attack you ?
i lowered my voice so only he could hear me .
i thought you said they would n't attack you .
he looked uneasy .
the syphon said he would be rewarded for grabbing me .
i think he was n't trying to kill me but trying to knock me out .
so he could bring you to kojas .
he nodded but he seemed somewhere else .
he sighed and said , i hope they wo n't go too far to achieve that , or it 'll get harder to hide this from emily and jason .
i crossed my arms .
i told you that we should tell them .
but you still refuse to let me- no , he said sternly .
no and that 's that .
fine , i said and threw my arms in the air .
i give up .
at least i tried but you 're just too stinking stubborn .
seth flashed me a smile .
it 's what you love the most about me .
i punched him in the arm .
who said i loved anything about you .
maybe i like puppies more .
at least they listen , mostly .
ow , that hurts , he said and clutched his side .
i laughed and felt the world brighten a bit .
you 're so annoying .
you can add that to the list .
you just love to insult me , seth grinned .
is it your new hobby ?
it will be if you keep annoying me , i fought the urge to punch him again .
he just rolled his eyes at me .
he really is the most annoying person i 've ever met besides emily and myself .
wow , he was going to have us both beat .
i 'm sorry to interrupt your playful banter , but are we actually looking for a place in particular or just some random cave ?
emily 's annoyed voice asked us from behind .
yes , just a random cave or a place to stay .
why ?
seth asked , just as annoyed .
well , she said , a cave wo n't be found in a forest , so should n't we be finding a way out of the forest ?
i know that , emily , he said and pointed to the trees .
can you find a way out ?
it just goes on and on .
i 'm hoping that we find a clearing soon .
fine , she said and crossed her arms , i 'm sorry i interrupted your conversation .
then she started talking to jason again .
seth made a cat noise and clawed the air , someone 's a pussy cat today .
be quiet seth or she 'll hurt you , i said and looked over my shoulder .
emily seemed to have heard that and she winked at me .
i smiled and winked back .
seth i 'd be really careful .
seth snorted , i 'm not scared of her .
i would be , i said and had to fight another smile .
i could tell it was getting past noon because the air started to get cooler .
i was suddenly really jealous of emily 's long robe .
i also was getting hungry and wondered if there was any way to get food in igneeria .
a huge rumble startled me and i looked up at the sky .
we were in a clearing and i could see the sky clearly .
dark clouds covered the sky and a rumble shook the air again .
a single drop of water landed on my cheek .
oh no , i breathed .
another drop landed on my forehead and then on my chin .
then they started to pick up speed and i covered my face with my hands .
the rain streaked through my hair , soaking it to my head .
seth looked extremely annoyed as he stood there , his blue hair plastered to his face .
his eyes were half covered by his hair and his eyes locked onto mine .
he rolled his eyes and looked away .
jason had his arms over his head , trying to keep the rain off his red hair but i already saw dark spots all over it where the rain had escaped his arms .
emily 's pink hair was dry and safely under a hood .
wait , what ?
emily , how come you have a hood ?
i had to shout over the rain .
she gave me a dazzling smile .
i 'm always prepared .
this is just great , seth shouted .
we better find some shelter because the rest of us are getting soaked to the bone .
i 'll take the lead , i said and ran in front of him .
you 'll lead us into a dragon 's cave if you take the lead .
seth rolled his eyes again .
fine !
i walked through the trees and took a right .
the trees parted and the trees ended .
right ahead of me was a cave .
found a cave , that was n't too hard seth , i said .
right , he said .
so what are we waiting for ?
let 's go !
i ran towards the cave , eager to get out of the rain and into somewhere dry .
i stopped in front to catch my breath .
emily , jason , and seth ran up behind me and we stared into the cave .
i took a deep breath and started to enter the cave .
all of a sudden , a roar made me freeze .
two nostrils and eyes popped up from the cave .
my blood stopped .
it was a dragon .
chapter 8 i stood , frozen in fear at the sight of the dragon .
it stalked towards me .
the piercing green eyes bore into mine and i was more scared than i had ever been in all 15 years of my life .
jazell move !
seth yelled and pushed me behind him so hard , i almost fell over .
i caught myself and pulled out my bow , notching an arrow .
we all tensed , prepared for a fight .
all of a sudden , emily walked towards the dragon .
seth yelled at her to get back but she ignored him .
she stood right in front of its head and opened her mouth , bizarre sounds started coming out .
we all stood there mesmerized as she grunted , growled , snorted and hissed at the dragon .
i expected it to just take a huge bite out of her , but it seemed as surprised as we were .
emily , what 's going on ?
i shouted to her and started to walk over .
seth reached out and grabbed my arm .
i spun around , suddenly annoyed .
he shook his head and nodded over to the dragon .
i looked and to my surprise it was bending down to let emily stroke its head .
she patted its head and it curled up outside the cave .
she bent down to whisper something in its ear and then stood up again .
well , she said looking at us , what are you waiting for ?
she disappeared in the cave .
then she poked her head out .
come on !
we walked slowly into the cave .
i glanced over at the dragon , which was now asleep and making small puffs of smoke in the rain .
i sat on the cold stone floor , shivering .
i was soaked to the skin and my hair was completely plastered to my head .
seth sat next to me and i could see he was shivering too .
jason slid down the wall across from us with his eyes closed .
i never want to walk again , he mumbled .
never .
you 're going to have to , dude .
we have a lot of walking left to do , seth said wearily .
jason groaned and circled up against the wall .
emily pulled her hood off and examined herself .
she mumbled something and squeezed her sleeves .
i feel so heavy and gross .
jason 's eyes popped open .
why are you complaining ?
you 're freaking dryer than all of us and you got some awesome power , too .
you ca n't complain .
language jason , she scolded .
i hate even being a tad wet so i feel like complaining .
i just do , so deal .
jason scowled and closed his eyes again .
i 'm sleeping and if anyone wakes me up and it 's not to kill something , i 'll stab them with my dagger .
wow you 're just a sparkly rainbow today , i said .
emily shook her head .
he 's just a fat crab .
maybe i am , jason said , deal .
emily sat near the entrance of the cave .
i heard jason 's breathing slow down which met he was sleeping .
i found myself pressing my shoulder to seth 's , trying to find warmth .
heat flowed into my shoulder but it was n't much .
oh well , you ca n't always be satisfied .
emily , how did you keep that dragon from attacking us ?
i asked .
you were making funny sounds that made no sense to me .
she looked puzzled .
what do you mean , i was speaking english and so was the dragon .
i shook my head .
no you were n't , you were making grunting and growling sounds .
that 's odd , i did n't think i was , she said .
i told the dragon that we were four half-lings who needed shelter from the rain .
then he asked if we were against kojas and i said yes , that he was hunting us .
then he told me that he would let us use his cave because he was on our side .
then i thanked him and here we are , inside the cave nice and dry .
maybe that 's your power , you can speak to dragons , seth suggested .
but i do n't understand how you two get powers and we do n't .
be patient , i said .
yes , emily murmured and stifled a yawn .
girls first , seth .
have a problem with that ?
all right then , he said and leaned against the wall .
sweet dreams to you two .
yup sweet dreams to us , i said and closed my eyes .
goodnight emily .
goodnight jazell .
i drifted off , feeling surprising comfy against seth 's shoulder and hearing jason softy snore .
i opened my eyes to see myself standing in the woods .
the sky saw clearer and it was n't raining anymore .
it was eerie quiet and as i stood there it felt like i had never left the woods .
i heard a voice whispering one word over and over again .
jazell ... what ?
i called .
what do you want ?
jazell ... the voice whispered again .
jazell .
what ?
i screamed into the trees .
what do you want ?
why do you have to repeat my name over and over again , it 's creepy .
jazell , beware , it whispered again .
beware .
i stomped my foot in frustration and yelled , beware of what ?
beware , it mumbled back .
beware of the shadows .
what ?
i said , startled .
i know how scary shadows are and i do n't need you to tell me that .
jazell ... that 's it , i said angrily .
i 'm getting an answer for once .
i ran towards the voice , which was hard because it sounded like it was everywhere .
a bright light flashed and i saw a ghost-like girl disappear in the darkness .
my eyes widened as i saw seth and then darkness .
but not before the voice said one more thing .
beware of each other .
*** i opened my eyes and shot up so fast my head collided with seth 's .
i clutched my head and said , ow .
seth stretched his arm to rub his eyes .
what 's wrong ?
he asked .
i shook my head .
nothing .
i looked at the beads of sweat on his forehead .
what 's wrong with you ?
nothing , he said .
i 'm just hot because when someone sleeps on someone else , that person kind of gets hot .
what do you mean ?
he shook his arm .
you fell asleep leaning against my arm .
were you cold ?
my face went red .
i did n't mean to , sorry .
it 's not a problem , at least no one was cold , he said .
i need to tell you something , i said .
i had another dream and i saw you in it .
it was kind of spooky , actually .
really , he said .
you were in my dream too .
there was a voice calling my name , i said , remembering the creepy dream .
it was saying to beware of the shadows .
then i saw this ghost-like girl before i saw you .
then i woke up .
seth nodded .
mine was calling my name too and said to beware of the shadows .
but i saw a ghost-like boy instead .
then i saw a glimpse of you and then i woke up .
who do you think they were ?
i asked .
the ghost kids .
i do n't know but i have a feeling that they were n't on kojas ' side , he replied .
i glanced over at emily and jason , making sure they were still sleeping .
why do you think they were in our dreams ?
was the 'beware of the shadows ' that important ?
does any of this ever make sense to us ?
seth asked with a shrug .
we just wait it out like we always do .
emily groaned and stretched .
she opened her eyes , squinting at the two of us .
morning .
good morning emily , sleep well ?
i asked , wondering if she had the same type of dream as we did .
she shrugged .
i slept soundly , why ?
nothing , just curious .
okay , she stood up and tip toed towards jason .
now the best part , waking up the grump .
she bent over close to his ear .
she took in a deep breath and then yelled at the top of her lungs , pie !
jason jumped up so fast that emily had to jump back to avoid getting hit in the head .
he almost fell backward but he steadied himself against the wall .
one of his knives slid into his hand but by the time he realized what was going on , we were all laughing hard i was getting the hiccups .
jason panted out each word , that ... is ... not ... funny !
he glared at emily so hard she must of thought that he had laser eyes .
emily was holding herself and trying to stop laughing so she could speak .
i 'm sorry jason ... but you were such a grouch yesterday ... we had to get you back !
i will get you back , jason said angrily .
i will .
okay jason , i hiccupped .
but you 're going to have to wait a while .
dude that was hilarious , seth choked out and had a smile on his face the size of the cave .
i 'm surprised you did n't scream like a little girl .
but you did jump like one .
jason 's face went red .
i thought i 'd get some support from you , seth .
he crossed his arms .
you might be next , you know .
seth shrugged .
maybe , but i do n't care .
we all need a good laugh to keep our spirits up and if that means scaring the crap out of me , i 'm fine with it .
so you 'll be fine with me dragging you outside while you were sleeping and leaving you in the rain ?
emily asked .
seth narrowed his eyes .
no , i 'd be cold , wet and annoyed .
you can do that if you feel like having me be grouchy all day .
nah , emily said .
i do n't think it would be worth it .
are we just going to sit here and talk or are we going to get a move on ?
i asked .
alright then , emily said and walked out of the cave .
if you want to go in the dreary woods so bad , we 'll go .
jason walked after her , shoulders hunched .
i went to follow him when seth said , we should tell them about our dreams .
i turned around and faced him .
we should , they need to know in case they have ones like ours .
seth nodded and followed me as we joined everyone else outside .
emily waited for us and then headed into the woods .
she waved to the dragon and we disappeared once more .
i stared off into the trees , waiting for seth 's cue to tell them about the ghost kids .
seth raised his hand , signaling for us to stop .
he put a finger to his lips and pointed in front of him .
i crept up and peered at where he was pointing .
a bunch of dwarves and tall , muscular men crowded around something .
the men had double swords sheathed on their back , long ears , and long black hair .
they were wearing some type of combat boots and thick coats .
one of them moved and i saw a tied dragon staked to the ground .
it continued to try to stand but it seemed to weak and fell back down .
i heard emily gasp in horror and i felt the same way .
one of the men poked it in the side with the butt of his sword and the dragon grunted in pain .
i looked over my shoulder at emily .
she looked like she was about to start crying any second .
seth drew his sword and crouched down .
he shuffled forward and motioned for us to follow .
we slid through the trees as quietly as we could .
i kept my eye on the faery men , waiting for one of them to turn around and notice us hiding in the trees .
i ducked behind a tree and looked over just in time to see emily trip and fall out of her bush .
the faery and dwarves looked at her in surprise .
i guess theyve never seen a teenage half-ling girl fall out of a bush before .
am i interrupting something ?
emily asked with a gulp .
the faery men drew their double swords and charged at her .
i released an arrow and it buried itself in one of their necks .
it fell backward and they turned to my hiding spot , searching for me .
two knives flew and a dwarf and man collapsed on the ground .
i saw jason hide behind his tree again .
one dwarf got too close to emily and she raised her arms , dousing him in flames .
he screeched and fell to the ground , withering and then went still .
seth ran from the trees , brandishing his sword .
he swung it around and clashed with one of the faery 's swords .
the faery brought the other around and seth twisted to avoid it .
he grabbed the blade and flung it out of the man 's arms .
he roared angrily and threw his sword down on seth , who raised his up to block it .
seth pushed back , but i could see him shaking .
right when i thought he was winning , my mouth dropped open .
time seemed to slow as one of the other faery guys ran over to seth and the one he was locked with .
the faery raised one of the hilts of his sword and brought it down on seth .
it collided with his head and seth dropped his sword .
he crumpled to ground and did n't move .
seth !
i screamed .
he did n't move and one of the faery men reached down to grab him but i screeched , leave him alone !
and sent an arrow into the guy 's neck .
i heard jason yell in rage and they started to drop like stones .
emily raised her arms and the ground shook under a faery .
roots twisted upward and wrapped around one of the five faery men that were left .
the other four fell dead from my arrows and jason 's knives .
i ran out from behind the tree and stormed over to the squirming faery man .
or i should to call them faery jerks now .
i grabbed his coat and forced him to look at me .
he smirked and i could n't hold back the urge to slap him .
i slapped my hand across his face so hard it left a mark on his cheek .
start talking , i snarled .
who are you guys and what are you doing ?
the faery jerk smirked again .
we 're part of kojas ' personal guard .
we were sent to look for you half-lings .
well i want you to know something , i said and got closer to his face .
we will win this fight , mark my words .
kojas is going down , way down if you know what i mean .
well , he said , if you let me go i 'll give him your message .
i do n't think so , i whispered .
you can tell him when he joins you .
i rammed my knife into his stomach and pulled it out .
the faery 's eyes rolled upward and he went still .
i wiped my knife on my pants and sheathed it .
i ran over to jason , who was crouched over the unconscious seth .
jason looked up and i saw his face was full of concern .
can you help emily , she 's trying to release the trapped dragon , i whispered to him .
jason nodded .
will do jazell .
he stood up and walked over to emily .
i sat on the ground next to seth .
his eyes were closed and he looked dead .
his blue hair was ruffled up in all directions .
i was so sure that he might be dead that i placed a hand on his chest , feeling for a heartbeat .
i felt the steady thump under my fingers and i sighed in relief .
i removed my hand and looked over at emily .
they had freed the dragon and they both were petting its head .
it stretched its wings and they both had to duck to avoid being hit .
seth , i whispered , this is what i meant when i said things would get bad if we did n't tell them .
i looked back at my two friends , who were laughing .
i mean they are our friends , best buds , you get my drift .
i understand that you 're scared and worried but so am i. i 'm scared that if i 'm the only one who knows about this , i wo n't be enough to help you .
jazell , i understand now .
i 'm sorry i was such a jerk , i should have listened to you .
i turned back around to see seth 's eyes watching me .
he was clutching his head and groaning .
i gave him a hand and he grabbed it .
i helped him sit up and handed him his sword .
he laid it across his lap and looked at the ground .
i 'm glad that you 're okay and that you 've finally through your stubbornness , i said and gave him a small smile .
i just do n't know what to tell them .
well , tell them everything , i said .
start in the beginning and do n't hold anything back .
if you do , i 'll tell them the rest .
seth !
jason said and ran over .
you 're awake , man !
yes and i feel like crap , he said .
i think that if i try to stand up i 'll either pass out or throw up .
will you be okay flying ?
emily asked .
what ?
i asked .
flying ?
what do you mean 'flying ' , emily ?
our new dragon friend offered to fly us out of the woods region and towards more of the mountains .
i said yes , of course , because i do n't want to walk the whole way there , she explained and walked towards the dragon .
i guess ... seth said and stood up .
he paled and started to sway .
jason grabbed his shoulder to steady him .
thanks jason , he panted .
take it easy , seth .
we can wait a minute if you need to rest , but seth shook his head .
no let 's move now .
emily , tell us what to do .
alright , boss , she said sarcastically .
everyone come over .
we walked over to her and the dragon with seth leaning on jason .
the dragon was lying on the ground , watching us closely .
its long , leathery wings were tucked neatly on each of its sides .
it snorted as emily climbed onto its back .
i stared at her , starting to think she was a little crazy .
come on !
she said and patted the dragon 's back .
do you think that you 're too heavy ?
well , you are n't , so get on his back .
i walked over and climbed onto the dragon 's back .
jason half hauled seth on the dragon 's back , and seth almost fell on me .
he grunted a sorry and pushed himself up in sitting position .
jason hopped on last and gave emily two thumbs up .
alright , she called .
lets move !
the dragon stretched up and i bounced around for a second .
it opened its huge wings and launched itself into the air .
if youre thinking of trying dragon riding as a hobby , i wouldnt .
i fell backwards and landed on seth who snapped at me to get off .
i couldnt move because we were still going up and if you paid attention in science class , this is usually when you cant move .
its called gravity .
the dragon righted itself and i scrambled back into sitting position .
we were gliding high up in the eerie sky and the view was actually beautiful .
the trees looked like an endless sea of lush green and the sun peeked out from behind the clouds .
i felt the urge to hold my arms out like they do in those movies so i could feel the wind on my arms .
it was already making my hair flap all over the place .
i heard seth huff out and i turned .
he gave me a face and said , your hair keeps getting in my face .
i turned back around .
deal .
we turned in the air and i could see the mountains in the distance .
they were small but were growing fast as we neared them .
i could feel the dragons muscles pump underneath my legs .
small gusts of air rolled off the dragons wings that blew emilys hair in her face .
i smiled as she raked the pink strands out of her mouth .
we dipped down and i felt the stomach-in-your-chest feeling you usually get from rollercoasters .
i closed my eyes and tried to ignore it but i couldnt .
i hated this feeling just as much as i hated puking , and the chills that liked to run up my spine at random times .
then all of a sudden , the dragon stopped .
my eyes opened in horror as i saw the small trickle of blood fall from a hole in the right wing .
then we started to fall .
chapter 9 i screamed so loud that my ears felt like they were going to pop .
we plummeted to the ground , falling closer and closer oh man , i thought and closed my eyes .
dont look , dont look , dont look really !
seth yelled at the sky .
this brings new meaning to things cant get any worse !
i gripped furiously to the limp dragon .
i was falling to my death : so this is how it was going to end .
i never pictured it this way ; i thought i would die a little more heroically , not screaming like a little girl .
not now seth , emily screamed at him .
everyone think !
how can i think , i screeched back , when the ground is rushed towards me at full speed ?
i dont know jazell , just think if you want to live , she said quickly .
i let out another scream as my body tipped towards the edge of the dragon .
i felt someone wrap their arm around me and i gave a grunt as i was pulled upright .
seth held me , his arm stiff and somewhat uncomfortable .
i was frozen in fear , realizing that i hated falling .
this was worse than my fear of rollercoasters .
calm down , seth said to me .
youre not going to fall- what do you mean , seth ?
i said in a panicked voice .
were freaking falling right now !
emily looked at us and she tried to hide the fear in her face .
the dragon is going to pull its wings around us to protect us from falling but its going to make us fall faster .
make sure you hold on to something or get in the center .
seth pressed himself against me and we leaned closer to the dragons back .
jason tucked his arms under him and emily pressed next to him .
then , as if on cue , the dragon tucked its great wings over us , blocking out the sky and we began to really fall .
i screamed louder and sunk deeper into seth , trying to forget that we were falling at about 90 miles per hour without a parachute .
every second felt like an hour .
i squeezed my eyes in an effort to make it all go away .
make it stop , make it stop seth gave me a comforting squeeze but it didnt help .
i tried to think of something else , like penguins or llamas .
anything , i didnt care what i thought about , it could be underwear , as long as i wasnt thinking about what was actually happening to me right now .
llamas , i thought urgently .
llamas are furry and they spit at you when theyre mad .
theyre the joke of most middle school kids , theyre talli think .
you can see them at parks or zoos .
they tend to try to steal your dads hat at the zoo .
they can be black , brown , and white .
i dont think there are pink or purple or green llamas out there unless you dye them .
i saw a llama once when i was , six at the zoo , and it stole dads hat .
they had to send a park ranger to get it back because dad really liked that hat a bone-shaking bang scattered my thoughts .
pain shot through my side .
we rolled over and i fell on top of seth and then we both landed on jason .
emily landed on us and we all tumbled onto hard ground .
i didnt move .
instead i stared at the sky trying to understand how i wasnt dead .
i just was hurting all over and my back felt like i was run over by a car .
i sat up and my back cried out in protest .
i pushed myself into sitting position and crawled over to seth .
he had his arms behind his head and was staring at the sky .
he smiled at me when he saw me .
you okay ?
you freaked out before , he asked , his voice full of concern .
i nodded and answered shakily , you know that i hate falling .
you must have been scared too .
he hesitated .
yes , i was , but i think i was more concerned that you would wake the dead with your screams and they would attack us too .
i smacked him lightly on the arm and laid down next to him .
i stared at the sky .
so where are we ?
well , our winged friend managed to get us out of the woods and near the mountains .
you can see them over there .
he pointed off in the distance and i spotted the mountains towering above everything else .
thats good , at least all of this wasnt for nothing .
he sighed and closed his eyes .
yes , i did n't lose my hearing for nothing , because i had to listen to you scream .
are you ever going to drop that ?
i asked .
seth smirked .
nope , it 's going to haunt you for the rest of your life .
he made ghost sounds .
wait , i said suddenly , were n't you going to tell emily and jason about you-know-what ?
what ?
seth asked lazily and plucked at the grass .
i sat up and glared at him .
what do you mean , 'what ' ?
you said you were going to tell them !
i 'm going to tell them if you are n't .
i stood up , but seth was faster .
he grabbed my arm .
i stood there and stared at him .
please jazell , let me tell them myself , he begged .
i waited for him to let go , but his grip stayed firm and strong .
i stared at him .
fine but i 'm tired of waiting , seth .
i know , i promise i 'll tell them , he stood up , his grip still tight .
i just do n't think now is the right time .
after something like falling out of the sky , i do n't want to bring more bad news .
i sighed .
alright , i 'll leave this to you .
but i swear ...
i will , i promise you !
he interrupted me .
i believe you , seth , i whispered .
now are you good and clear ?
seth stared at me , looked down at my arm and let go .
he brushed his dirty hair away from his eyes and looked around .
i blinked and shook my head .
jazell !
seth !
i turned around and waved .
emily was running over with jason on her heels .
she slowed down and hugged me tight .
jason slapped seth on the back and bent over to catch his breath .
hey , where were you guys ?
i asked .
we were looking around to see if it was safe , emily said .
we thought you two were doing the same .
she put her hands on her hips .
i guess not .
are you going to get mad at me ?
i pouted .
she play punched me in the arm .
no , i 'll let it slide .
she winked at me .
i looked over at seth , trying to catch his eye but he avoided my gaze .
jason started talking to seth and the two whispered so we could n't hear .
emily rolled her eyes .
so did you find anything ?
i asked and traced the dirt with my foot .
emily shook her head .
nothing , we 're alone .
maybe we can try to get somewhere without bad guys jumping out at us .
we should move , before something does find us .
whatever knocked us out of the sky is n't going to be friendly if they find us again , i pointed out .
let 's move boys , we have a lot more walking to do .
jason groaned .
why ca n't they have cars in igneeria ?
or maybe a motorcycle , i 'm even fine with a golf cart .
because , i said and walked past him , not looking back , igneerians are n't lazy jason 's .
i heard him huff and emily ran up beside me .
good thinking , she said .
the girls should take control .
i shrugged .
i guess if that 's what you want to do .
thankfully , there were no trees anywhere except one .
the ground was mostly dirt and rock , easier to walk on .
the mountains loomed ahead of us and something tingled down my spine .
something was going to happen in those mountains , i just knew .
the sky was clearer here and also more windy .
the wind tugged at my hair and clothes as i walked .
i had to keep squinting to see through my hair .
i felt a tap on my shoulder and i looked over .
emily held her hand out .
here jazell , use this to keep your hair out of your face , she opened her hand and dropped something in my palm .
i held it up .
it was a thin , vine that was about a foot long .
it felt like a ribbon to me and i shrugged .
i do n't usually wear ribbons and bows ; that was emily 's style .
i pulled my hair back and tied the vine .
it kept my hair out of my face and acted like a rubber band .
thanks emily , i said .
she finished tying her hair back .
no problem .
we should look for somewhere to stay for the night .
i looked around , but everywhere was bare ground , hill after hill .
i do n't see any caves .
we 'll just have to sleep in the open , she stated and pointed to a huge tree .
we 'll sleep under that tree .
okay , i said , a little disappointed .
seth , jason , we 're going to sleep over here .
jason sighed in relief and we all gathered around the bottom of the tree .
i stretched and leaned against the trunk of the tree , happy for the silence .
but , of course , that never lasts around here .
hey , did n't we stop the water war ?
emily asked .
we never got to finish it and see who would win .
jason laughed .
yes , we did , that 's right !
it does n't matter though ; seth and i would have won anyway .
no , she said , staring him down .
we would win because we 're awesome .
no we would win because we 're awesome !
jason argued .
oh boy , what did the two start ?
i asked seth .
this is going to go on and on and on and on ...
i get it , he interrupted me .
this is never going to end .
we 'll be up all night .
unless you interrupt them and tell them about your secret , i said .
seth looked down .
you want them to kill me ?
maybe i 'll tell them in the morning when they are n't so crabby .
you better , i snapped and stared at emily and jason .
they were still bickering .
i felt something on my hand and i looked down .
seth had wound his fingers in mine .
his touch was gentle and cool , kind of reassuring .
my mind blanked .
i was holding hands with seth .
i never thought that would happen .
seth smiled sheepishly .
jazell , you should just relax .
let them bicker all they want ; we do n't have to be a part of it .
get some sleep .
my mind was still slow , trying to process why he was holding my hand .
i blinked and nodded .
alright but if it starts getting crazy , wake me up .
wake you up ?
he asked and laughed .
i 'm sleeping too .
if it gets crazy , they 'll wake us up .
okay , i said and yawned .
i leaned my head against the tree and closed my eyes .
the world seemed to fade around me , along with the bickering and seth 's hand , as i fell asleep .
i opened my eyes to see that i was in a cave .
i peered at the entrance of the cave to see that outside it was dark .
i walked toward the entrance when something stopped me .
do n't go into the shadows , jazell , a familiar voice said .
it was the voice from my last dream .
i whirled around in a circle , looking for the source of the voice .
there was nothing here .
who are you ?
i asked , trying to calm down .
can i trust you ?
trust me like your shadow , the voice said again .
but you said to beware of shadows , i said .
so does that mean i ca n't trust you ?
you know your shadow , there is a difference , the voice said again .
i shook my head .
this is confusing , why do n't you understand that ?
there was a pause .
i do understand ; i hated it too .
all the annoying riddles but that 's the way it 's supposed to be .
then the voice said stronger , look behind you .
i turned back around to see the inside of the cave .
a girl was walking towards me , the same one i saw last time .
she didnt like it because i was staring at her , but i could n't help it .
she stopped in front of me .
you 're not supposed to see me yet , she said and sighed .
oh well , i never was one to follow the rules .
who are you ?
she shook her head .
i ca n't tell you yet .
that 's one rule i 'm not going to break .
i opened my mouth but she shook her head .
do n't ask what my name is or why i 'm talking to you , because i ca n't answer either of those questions .
what can you tell me then ?
i can tell you that i 'm not an enemy , she said .
i can also tell you to be careful about kojas ; he 's tricky and will use your emotions against you .
he 'll find a way to get you to come to him instead of him coming to you .
she huffed , coward .
how do you know ?
she smiled sadly .
let 's just say i know what i 'm talking about .
be careful and keep your friends close .
the four of you were chosen because of your unbreakable bond , but even that can be broken .
you are strongest when you are together , so dont let yourselves be separated .
would n't it be called 'an breakable bond ' , then ?
i asked her .
she laughed but then grew serious .
be very careful .
we all know that we picked the right four , but it would be a shame if something happened to all of you before you could complete your goal .
that got my attention .
you know how we became half-lings ?
you know who attacked us that day ?
i 've said too much already , she said and backed up .
i must go .
wait !
i called .
wait ; tell me what 's going on !
tell me what we 're supposed to do !
but she was already gone .
*** i opened my eyes and the cold of the morning bit at my cheeks .
seth was fast asleep next to me , his blue hair covering half his face .
emily was curled up a few feet away from me .
jason turned in his sleep , mumbling something unintelligent .
i needed to talk to someone , but everyone was sleeping .
i pushed seth over and his eyes flew open .
his hand went to his sword but he saw me and he relaxed .
what was the point of pushing me over , jazell ?
well , it seemed better than punching you in the side .
were you dreaming ?
i asked .
he shook his head .
just a bunch of nonsense i do n't even remember .
why , did you get another vision ?
yes , i said .
it was with the same voice that was in my last dream .
only this time , i talked to the ghost girl .
you did ?
what did she say ?
she hinted that she knew who made us this way and who attacked us that day , i said .
she also said that kojas would use our emotions against us and try to get us to come to him .
something dark crossed seth 's face .
she also said that we were chosen because of our strong bond , but she said , not to test it , i continued .
she also told me not to go into the shadows .
seth stretched .
so the usual confusion ?
i got more this time , seth .
anyway , do you have any information to offer here ?
i asked with an edge to my voice .
seth put his arms in surrender .
hey , do n't start yelling at me .
we were getting a long pretty well last night , let 's keep it that way .
i felt my face flush when i remembered last night .
yes , you 're right .
i was eager to change the subject so i said , are you going to tell them when they wake up ?
yes i will , jazell .
i promised .
i sighed in relief .
good ...
i heard a loud yawn and emily stretched her arms in the air .
she stood up and walked the couple of feet over to me and stopped .
i pushed myself up and leaned against the tree .
emily gave me a light smile .
good morning !
she said and twirled around .
hello bare ground that has no forest !
you seem to be in a good mood today , i mused and watched her twirl .
she stopped and her face crinkled up in thought .
i think it 's because i did n't wake up to be in a never-ending forest .
plus , last night jason got so sick of arguing with me he just gave up .
i think i won .
great , i said half-heartedly .
that 's only because i was too tired to keep arguing with you , jason said and he sat down next to seth .
if it was morning , it would have been different .
emily sighed and shook her finger .
excuses .
listen guys , seth said , i have something to tell you .
he looked at me and i nodded .
emily twirled her hair .
hm ?
what is it seth ?
i 've been hiding this from you for a long time , seth began .
only jazell knew what it was because she found out that i was hiding something , and demanded to know what it was .
so i told her , and ever since i did she 's been bugging me to tell you too .
but i did n't want to , i was afraid that i would get you worried about nothing .
so far it has n't turned out to be nothing .
the incident with the faery guard showed that clearly .
i walked over to him and sat at his other side .
i gave him a smile .
he smiled back and continued .
the faery could have easily stabbed me through the heart but he did n't because he wanted me alive ; to give to kojas .
emily gasped and covered her face .
why , what would he want with you ?
seth closed his eyes .
he 's saying that i 'm going to be his key to success , in taking over igneeria and earth .
he wants to use me , i do n't know how yet .
they 're going to do whatever they can to bring me to him ; i 'm going to have to be extra careful .
i do n't know- seth , jason interrupted him .
seth looked up at his best friend .
seth , jason repeated , you are n't alone .
kojas is n't going to get a chance to use you because he 's going to have to get through me first .
and me , emily added .
do n't count me out .
i stood up and faced seth with emily and jason .
and he 's going to have to get through me too .
seth smiled and stood up .
he sighed in relief .
well , that 's a load off .
i do n't know whether i should be mad at you for not telling us or be happy that we 're all on the same page , emily said thoughtfully .
but you better not keep anything else from us or kojas wo n't be your problem .
she winked at him and set off with jason on her heels .
i think they were going to start arguing about the water war .
great job seth !
i said and hugged him .
his eyes seemed to widen in surprise but he did n't tell me to get off .
i pulled away , blushed , and started to follow emily 's tracks .
seth followed behind me and there seemed to be a new spring to his step .
i could n't even keep the smile off my face .
everything seemed a lot better to me .
at the top of the hill , emily and jason were waiting for us .
a shadow formed behind them and i screamed for them to turn around .
what the heck ?
seth shouted and pointed .
oh snap .
chapter 10 emily and jason dashed back to our sides as the shadow became a body .
it was bigger than the dragon we had rode .
it had the body of a huge cockroach but its tail was a giant stinger .
large , bat wings were holding it up in the air .
what is it ?
i asked .
i turned to emily and said , emily , you know anything about this creature ?
she looked pale .
it 's saying , 'kill half-lings , kill and eat . '
well , you better tell it that it 's going to have to starve this time because it 's not going to be eating anything , seth said confidently and held his sword out .
she shook her head .
there is no way that i 'm going to say that .
jazell , can you see its weakness ?
seth called to me .
i squinted at the creature , and saw a dark circle under its belly .
it 's under its belly , but you have to get by the stinger first .
that might cause us a problem .
no problem , seth replied and swung his sword in an ark .
well just cut off the stinger .
seth its not that simple i said but he ignored me .
ug , the nerve of that boy .
jason , try to hit its face , he instructed .
emily , knock it off balance .
can i skip while i do it ?
emily asked .