the haze in wara 's mind suddenly drifted away and she dragged herself to sitting .
the guy with coffee-colored skin stalked over to a backpack in the corner , yanked out a gray t-shirt and pulled it over his head .
he eyed her , then lowered himself to sitting at the other end of the sleeping bag .
`` my name is paulo , '' he said .
`` you should sleep . ''
there was no way she felt like going to sleep right now .
in this tent , with him .
`` someone said something about a bomb , '' she blurted out , needing to understand what kind of situation she was in here .
`` please at least tell me what 's going on . ''
paulo pressed his lips together and folded his arms across his chest , looking even more dangerous .
wara fought not to shrink back .
`` there was a bomb on the bus , '' he said finally .
`` it was in a package that we mailed freight to la paz .
you and noah had nothing to do with it .
you were an accident .
you were n't supposed to be there . ''
wara stared , dumbfounded .
`` but , why ?
why would you ?
what ?
? ''
how could she say , why did you do this to us ?
paulo sighed .
`` there are a lot of things i ca n't explain to you .
you were n't supposed to be there , but you were .
and now you 're a witness . ''
icy fingers ran down wara 's arms .
so , what ?
they were just going to kill her ?
`` so you 're just planning on killing me too .
like right now ?
what are you waiting for ? ''
that came out sounding much too hysterical , but wara was really scared .
paulo 's eyebrows lowered even more and he uncrossed his legs and rested his forearms on raised knees .
`` i would have had the guys just leave you on the road , for someone to find and take to the hospital .
you never would have known a thing . ''
was it her imagination or did he actually wince hearing his own words ?
`` but you got brought here , '' he continued , `` and so now everything is more complicated .
if we let you go , that causes some major problems for us .
i 'm going to do the best i can to think up a solution for this , ok ?
but no promises . ''
she just then noticed that this guy called paulo had a water bottle in one hand , which he held out to her .
`` take these . ''
wara felt her eyes narrow in suspicion at the sight of two huge white pills on his palm .
`` it 's ibuprofen , '' he said , mouth twisting wryly .
she took the medicine silently , draining half a bottle of water .
she was so thirsty .
`` you 're sure you 're not bleeding ? ''
the question made her furious as she thought about noah : where he was , if he was hurt right now .
bleeding .
she was just fine .
for now .
but when paulo pulled on a sweater and stretched himself out on the tent floor as if to sleep , claustrophobia set in .
`` i 'll have to wake you up every hour , '' he informed her .
`` since you could have a concussion .
and just so you know , we have motion detectors around our camp .
do n't try to escape .
we 'll catch you . ''
and paulo switched off the camping lamp .
it was pitch black in the tent , but she heard his even breathing , imagined him already sleeping , not affected at all by the way he had just destroyed her life .
sorrow gripped her chest like a vise and she let herself sink back into the sleeping bag .
she twisted the silver ring on her finger , feeling she was really in a dream .
in the real world , girls like her did n't survive bus crashes and get dragged off by a bunch of crazy guys as their prisoner .
in the real world , nice guys like noah did n't still love girls like her when they found out who they really were .
or give them silver rings .
noah .
oh noah .
how could you do that ?
she felt herself sinking into the ground , asleep in the tent somewhere under the stars , and in her dreams she was back in cochabamba in caf amara with noah .
it was three in the afternoon a few months ago , and the caf was nearly empty .
bittersweet chocolate and coffee from coroico scented the air , fairly dripping from the lime green silk plastered on the walls .
sweet corn mixed with white cheese and anise wafted from the kitchen , where dona filomena , the quechua lady who wore perpetual smile creases around her obsidian eyes , was boiling humintas in an enormous dented pot .
wara always imagined her in there , praying under her breath in tongues while she cooked or washed dishes , wide velvet pollera skirt swaying against the counter .
across from wara at a smooth wooden table , noah looked up from his toshiba tablet and said , `` so , how did it go on tuesday ?
did you get in trouble ? ''
`` huh ? ''
wara frowned at him , glancing up from the quechua book she d been reading while waiting for nazaret to show up .
the two girls were teaching a group of ladies to read in quechua at a church downtown , close to caf amara .
wara saw the twinkle in noah 's eye and suddenly got what he was talking about .
her face spread into a grin and she lay the book on the table , right over half of che guevara 's face that some local artist had painted in pastels .
she leaned back into the chair , raised an eyebrow at him and fingered the little gold star on the side of her nose .
`` about this ?
well , i do n't think they liked it , but i 've always been a little weird .
the bennesons are nice missionaries ; they did n't say anything .
plus , c'mon , my name means star .
in a bolivian language . ''
she peered at noah over the top of her maroon glasses , still grinning .
`` it 's you you should worry about .
just cause you did n't go to prayer meeting on tuesday does n't mean the rest of the team is n't gon na find out next time . ''
`` you got me . ''
noah ran a hand through his straggly sandy blond hair , pushing it aside to reveal a little silver hoop in his right ear .
`` they might be mad .
but i 'm not sure what the big deal is .
half the bolivian guys i 'm friends with here have an earring .
or a couple earrings . ''
he let the hair fall back over his ear and they both sat there , smiling , enjoying the moment of feeling like naughty missionaries .
well , at least one of them was n't really naughty .
noah was just a nice guy who wanted an earring .
clay dishes clinked from the kitchen and the aroma of lemon bubbles joined the coffee floating around them in the empty coffee shop .
footsteps scuffed on the pavement outside the open caf entrance and tiago slouched by under a black backpack covered in skull patches , wearing baggy black jeans with chains as usual .
noah and wara threw him a wave , and he grinned back , revealing a silver stud in his tongue wara did n't remember seeing before .
noah and i have a ways to go before we beat tiago in the piercing count , she thought , still smiling .
noah had stretched his legs out under the table and was back typing furiously at his little tablet .
he was squinting at the thing with extreme concentration , like a successful young stock broker in an armani suit instead of a missionary in cut-off khaki shorts that really needed a haircut .
`` ok , so , look at this , '' he told wara , whirling the screen around so she could see .
`` remember last week when we saw all those muslim ladies passing out tracts in the plaza ? ''
sure she did .
wara had been with noah and nazaret , and they had come upon a big group of women in veils , right in the plaza colon .
most of them were bolivians who had converted to islam through the influence of the small-but-growing muslim community here in south america .
the ladies had been passing out tracts about islam , and the whole scene had been kind of surreal because back in the day , christians used to be the only group you would see doing things like that .
wara scooted her chair closer to noah and planted an elbow right in che guevara 's eye as she positioned herself to squint at his tiny screen .
`` so i was checking online a little about islam , '' noah said , `` cause i was kinda curious about how it 's growing so much around here .
look at this website i found.
``
wara 's eyes fell on something like a powerpoint presentation , all in spanish , with photos of dramatic mountain backdrops fading away around the large letters .
`` islam is the only hope for latin america , '' the title proclaimed .
the following screens explained how islam really is the heritage of spanish-speaking peoples and they should return to it with all their hearts .
islam is the only light for latin america .
and islam gives us a common cause as brothers : fight against injustice and western imperialism .
`` that 's a little bit freaky . ''
wara bit her lip while meeting noah 's eyes .
`` the part about fighting against western imperialism .
the way so many people feel about western imperialism in bolivia these days , that seems like a great reason for a lot of people to join islam.
``
noah cocked his head to one side and shrugged .
she could see the earring again , and he looked kind of cute with it .
the thought occurred to her that there must be a ton of bolivian girls in love with this guy , and it almost made her laugh .
`` did n't your parents want you to be a stock broker ?
or something , '' she asked him , totally changing the subject .
noah blinked , then settled back slowly into his chair .
`` yeah , something like that .
they made me study international business .
and they are not too happy with me right now , as i 'm sure i told you before .
maybe if i wore a tie to work it would help.
``
they both snorted , then burst into laughter , tears leaking out of their eyes as they looked at themselves .
noah in the cut-off shorts and a wrinkled t-shirt with giant hawaiian flower flip-flops .
wara was wearing frayed jeans and yet another hippy shirt , this one a pumpkin orange with purple tie-dyed rings and little brass bells hanging from the sleeves .
yeah , maybe noah should start wearing a pinstripe silk tie with that outfit , when he went to play with the kids at the martirs ' aids center and give them their medicine .
or when he sang here at the caf .
tobin and tobias could get one too .
they both laughed and swiped tears from their eyes until nazaret came to get wara for their class .
12 hazel a hard whisper jerked her awake , cutting violently through the darkness .
the memory of where she was crushed her .
she and noah were n't laughing in the caf together .
they had been in a bus accident , and she did n't know where noah was .
she was here in a tent somewhere , captured by some really dangerous guys .
wara froze on the sleeping bag , praying that if they thought she was still asleep , they 'd leave her alone .
the guy who 'd kidnapped her , paulo , had woken her up a few times in the night , just to make sure she was still alive .
before they killed her .
`` hey ! ''
the insistent whisper came again .
`` time for prayers , che . ''
wara cracked her eyes open in the direction of the tent door and saw a thin , pale face with a little goatee leaning inside , calling paulo .
nylon fabric rustled as paulo staggered up off the floor , shivered , then pulled a second black sweater over his head .
`` ya voy , '' he whispered , and the light-skinned man disappeared , leaving the tent flap hanging open .
`` i 'm coming . ''
paulo turned his morbidly serious gaze on wara and she tensed and did her best to appear fast asleep .
she slit her eyes open as she heard him padding towards the door , saw that he was leaving in khaki cargo pants and bare feet .
after a minute , she slipped from the sleeping bag and crawled to the door of the tent , where a star-studded sky and crescent moon gave the only light .
was it almost early morning ?
or what were these guys doing up in the middle of the night ?
`` time for prayers , '' the man who came to get paulo had said .
wara frowned and bit her lip .
around six men were gathered in the clearing , close enough that she could pick up what they said .
six more men suddenly appeared out of the darkened forest , dripping water from their hair and sleeves .
the other six , including paulo in his black sweater , walked together into the trees and disappeared .
wara settled in cross-legged , watching the strange scene with bleary eyes .
when paulo 's group came back , also glistening with drops of water in the moonlight , all of the men lined up facing the same direction , now silent , without the excited chatter .
everyone bowed their heads , and then wara heard the soft rumble of them all chanting together : allaahu akbar allaahu akbar ashhadu allah ilaaha illa-lah ashhadu allah ilaaha illa-lah ash hadu anna muhamadar rasuulullah ash hadu anna muhamadar rasuulullah wara 's pulse surged , knowing what she was listening to .
as a linguistics geek , she could definitely recognize arabic .
god is great .
i bear witness that there is none worthy of worship except god .
i bear witness that muhammad is the messenger of god .
they 're saying salaat , wara thought , absolutely stunned .
these guys are muslims .
the men , still standing , all hooked their hands behind their ears , turning their palms forward , and repeated , `` allah akbar '' in a flat monotone .
crossing one hand on top of the other in front of their bellies , they prayed more in arabic , though wara only caught a little .
the main gist seemed to be glory and praise to allah , and at the end she heard something about satan .
she then recognized the opening lines of the first surah or chapter of the quran .
all of the men outside bowed in unison , backs straight , gaze lowered .
wara shivered , hearing again , `` allah akbar ! ''
and realizing that most of the praying men wore long knives hanging from their belts in leather sheathes .
her attention span suddenly fizzled and she weakly crawled back to the sleeping bag , not quite sure what this new revelation meant for her .
she was being held captive by a group of muslims .
who had put a bomb on her bus .
for the first time she wondered where she was .
under the white star light outside the tent , wara had made out the shadowy bulk of mountain peaks .
the men must have carried her , unconscious , from the road after the accident .
they could n't have carried her far , could they ?
we could be up on one of the peaks above coroico .
the perfect hiding spot for terrorists , apparently .
who would ever guess that islamic terrorists would be lurking around coroico , adventure tourism capital ?
coroico , with its stunning scenery , picturesque small-town charm , thick with plantings of coffee beans and oranges ?
feeling rather sick , wara uncapped the bottle of luke-warm water paulo had given her last night and drained the rest .
she really needed to use the bathroom , but was n't about to ask .
yet .
right now she really needed a distraction , something to keep from thinking about muslim terrorists outside her tent and noah possibly being dead .
wara dropped the empty plastic bottle onto the sleeping bag and let her eyes wander around the tent .
the olive green tent was big enough for paulo to stand in at the center , just barely .
six people could possibly sleep in the thing side to side , but right now the tent only held the one sleeping bag , a rust-colored hiking backpack , the lantern , and leather sandals .
and a fat golden book .
swallowing hard , wara reached towards it , thinking maybe she could work on deciphering some of the arabic lettering in this quran to keep herself from crying .
she flipped through the gold leaf pages of the book , then frowned at the page and blinked .
because the book was n't a quran at all ; it was a bible .
the scrolling letters shimmered in front of her , and wara closed the book to see the cover , unable to believe what was in front of her eyes .
this guy , paulo , had a bible here in his tent ?
the same paulo who was holding her captive and had tried to kill her and noah on the bus ?
something fluttered out of the arabic bible pages , swishing to the nylon tent floor .
it was a dated-looking five-by-seven photograph of a happy family seated at a restaurant .
wara immediately recognized the bright colors and elephant logo of dumbo ice cream parlor in cochabamba .
the entire family in the picture was gathered around a square table with a canary yellow tablecloth , eating sundaes in tall , frosty glasses .
footsteps padded outside and wara jumped as paulo ducked in the tent .
he saw her sitting there , then paused .
droplets of water still clung to his temples and curly black hair .
`` how are you feeling ? ''
he finally said .
`` what ? ''
wara blinked at him .
how was she feeling ?
was she really supposed to be feeling anything other than awful ?
paulo 's eyes flitted between her face and the photo she was holding between two fingers .
it occurred to her that maybe snapping at him about how she was feeling would n't be the best way to keep this guy from killing her .
maybe she should talk to him , try to at least seem sympathetic .
it was n't very likely he would care , but worth a try .
`` dumbo , '' wara remarked , studying the picture again and trying to keep her voice from shaking .
`` i love this place .
i go here all the time in cochabamba .
who 's this in the picture ? ''
paulo lowered himself onto the floor next to her and held out one hand , palm up .
`` that 's my family , '' paulo said , obviously wanting the picture .
but wara kept staring at it , suddenly fascinated with how the family of an evil man who bombed buses would look .
they should be dysfunctional to the core , lounging together at a seedy bar while the kids ran wild in the streets .
what were they all doing eating ice cream at dumbo like decent people ?
two normal-appearing adults who could be the parents were both looking off in another direction , as were a few of the children .
`` looks like you have a nice family , '' wara said , thinking that it was actually true .
closest to the camera sat a plump teenage girl with curly ringlets , a mickey mouse sweatshirt , and huge gold hoop earrings .
a skinny , good-looking kid with dark hair had an arm around her , wearing a red soccer jersey , grinning at whoever was snapping the picture .
the shock started small , somewhere at the bottom of wara 's spine .
but by the time it raced up her back , she nearly choked , sucking in a horrified gasp .
`` please give me the picture , wara , '' paulo was saying with a tight smile , but wara had frozen , realizing that she knew the face of the girl with ringlets in the picture .
in fact , she knew that face so well she felt it was part of her own family .
paulo snatched the picture away and wara felt the tent wall shimmer around her in waves of hot and cold .
`` you 're alejandro martir ! ''
she croaked .
she stared at the face of the guy in front of her : square , coffee- colored jaw , pretty hazel eyes .
those were the eyes !
all seven of the martir kids had them , inherited from their mother , noly .
wara 's jaw dropped , then snapped back shut .
paulo was blinking at her , obviously shocked .
`` your sister , nazaret , '' she forced herself to say numbly , `` is my best friend in cochabamba . ''
paulo 's clear hazel eyes widened and then closed , very slowly .
his face confirmed everything .
13 olive green it ca n't be .
wara really could n't believe it , could n't wrap her mind around this being anything other than the worst nightmare ever .
`` you 're the brother ? ''
she forced herself to say the awful words out loud .
`` the one who 's been missing . ''
she could see it now , that faded photograph on nazaret 's white dresser , surrounded by threadbare teddy bears and little jeweled vials of nail polish .
it was him , that skinny kid from the missing brother picture .
he was the same guy sitting next to nazaret in the ice cream shop , arm slung around her shoulders .
and here with wara in this tent , holding her prisoner .
alejandro .
she could n't believe it .
one of the martirs was a criminal ?
or a muslim terrorist ?
paulo-no , alejandro -- -was looking at her with deliberation , as if deciding whether it was worth insisting on the previous lie about his identity .
then he erased his pained expression and scooted closer to her .
`` actually i go by alejo .
how is my sister ? ''
wara was furious , horrified .
`` why do n't you find out yourself ? ''
she snapped at him , voice bordering on hysterics .
`` your family has , like , adopted me in cochabamba .
they pray for you all the time .
they 've been wondering for years where you 've been ! ''
now wara was sputtering , and she tried to calm down .
her nerves were beyond frayed , and her hands trembled on her lap .
nazaret 's brother looked stricken , a marked change to his former aloofness .
`` nazaret has been doing really well , actually , '' wara glared at him .
`` until now , because she 's going to find out that two of her best friends are dead !
the good thing is , though , that it looks like she 'll never find out that her brother killed them .
so i 'm sure that someday , she 'll go back to being 'fine ' ! ''
tears filled wara 's eyes , and she felt furious for crying in front of this man .
but she was also afraid .
nazaret 's brother or not , this guy had kidnapped her and bombed the bus .
he had n't contacted his family in all these years .
the fact that wara knew the martirs was n't going to keep alejandro from killing her so she would n't give away information about whatever he and his fellow terrorists were doing .
it was n't the first time she 'd let that word float through her mind .
wara swiped at the tears with her sleeve and tried to control herself .
`` are you a terrorist ? ''
she asked warily , fixing her runny eyes on nazaret 's brother .
alejandro actually had the gall to draw back in surprise , screwing up his face as if offended by her insinuation .
`` what ?
no ! ''
he insisted , waving his hand at her .
`` we are not terrorists , ok ? ''
it could have been wara 's overactive imagination , but alejandro did not appear completely convinced of his own words .
brief memories crossed wara 's brain of various news articles she 'd read online recently , accusations from the united states that bolivia was harboring fundamental muslims and allowing them to use their country as a base for radical islam 's cause .
in fact , one of bolivia 's former presidents had foreseen something similar when he commented , `` bolivia is going to be the next afghanistan . ''
she remembered the web page noah had found that day in the coffee shop , the one about islam being the only hope for latin america .
`` i 'm not sure i believe you , alejandro , '' she said .
alejandro watched her guardedly .
`` actually i go by alejo .
i really hate alejandro .
that would be what my father called me . ''
what could alejandro martir possibly have against his father ?
pablo martir was a good man , a far cry from what his son had apparently become .
this was a nightmare .
wara 's eyes ran over alejo 's face again : nazaret 's father 's jaw .
his mother 's eyes .
it was awful .
being kidnapped and nearly killed by someone bearing the image of her bolivian `` parents '' was really freaking wara out .
she could n't handle it .
wara crumpled down into the sleeping bag and pulled the top over her head .
she squeezed her eyes shut , even after she heard alejo leave the tent , close the flap behind him .
alejo martir left her alone for a long time , just stopping back once to remind her that the tent was surrounded by motion detectors so she 'd better be sure not to escape .
he asked if she needed the bathroom or food , but she did n't even acknowledge him , still curled up under the sleeping bag .
alejo and the other guys were close by in the clearing , having some kind of meetings .
probably terrorist stuff .
maybe about noon he came back and caught her staring blankly at the cover of the fat golden bible `` brought you some granola bars , '' he said grimly .
`` and some more water .
but before you eat , there 's a stream close by in the forest .
i thought maybe you 'd want to go down there ... '' he squatted and picked up a bag from behind his backpack in the corner , which he held out towards wara .
she blinked , realizing it was her purple backpack .
`` how did that get here ?
i do n't remember . ''
alejo shrugged , one foot tapping on the floor , probably anxious to get back to whatever he was doing outside .
`` i 'm going to have gabriel and stalin take you down to the creek , '' he informed her .
noting a look of protest about to spread across her face , alejo raised one hand and said , `` most of the guys have already gone back home .
the ones that are left i trust .
they 're going to take you there and bring you right back .
ok ? ''
`` fine . ''
wara shrugged helplessly .
what choice did she have ?
she was his prisoner , right ?
`` thanks for the food , '' she said in a small voice , glad right now for any small kindness .
alejo nodded curtly and eyed her again before turning to stride out of the tent .
she heard him giving instructions to someone outside , and then the tent flap pulled aside and two faces poked in : the pale goatee who woke alejo for prayers this morning and the pudgy guy who last night had told her that when she kicked the bucket she deserved to go to heaven .
`` ready ? ''
they asked politely .
wara stood up warily , racking her brain to try to remember if these two had been among those making nasty comments upon her arrival last night .
as far as she could recall , the stringy-haired guy had only been standing and staring-and she remembered him giving her a hand up and telling the guys to stop with the lewd jokes .
and the skinny guy-now it was all coming back .
he had leaned close when alejo had his arm practically around her neck and whispered , `` i did n't want to bring her , but the guys said i had to . ''
so far so good .
`` ok , sure . ''
wara shrugged and tried to pick up her rather heavy backpack .
the bulky guy stepped forward hesitantly and held out one arm for her bag .
she handed it to him without a word and followed the two of them outside .
after a few steps in blinding sunlight , they entered the shade of the trees .
a chorus of cicadas and tropical birds was rising above the canopy .
wara jumped as a reedy voice said , `` so , i 'm stalin .
in coroico i 'm a professor .
i teach kids morality and ethics class . ''
`` uh , hi . ''
morality and ethics class ?
is he serious ?
`` my name is gabriel shara . ''
wara noticed that the taller , thin guy had a baby face with kind-looking greenish eyes .
`` i 'm wara cadogan , '' she said , wondering if they really cared .
`` yeah , we know . ''
gabriel was starting to cheer up .
`` we read your passport .
you 've been here in bolivia for a really long time . ''
`` six years , '' stalin remarked , stepping carefully over a very tall rock , slippery with the morning dew .
wara felt the dampness soak through her canvas shoes and into her ankle socks , and decided that whatever time left to her in life she would live barefoot .
`` just a second , '' she said , stopping in the middle of the forest and beginning to peel off her soaked shoes and socks .
`` my shoes are all wet . ''
`` but-we 're almost to the stream ! ''
stalin insisted , seemingly shocked by the sight of a gringa stripping off her footwear in the middle of the cloud forest .
`` you 're going to get cut on the rocks ! ''
`` well apparently i might die today anyway , so i might as well enjoy my last day , right ?
am i supposed to be afraid of dying with a few cuts on my feet ? ''
she wadded the damp socks up into her shoes and began walking again , picking her way over broken sticks and squishy moss .
stalin and gabriel walked alongside her in morose silence , until the gurgling of water told wara that stalin had been right .
a shallow , rushing stream cut its way through a dirt patch of the forest just ahead , tripping over small stones in its path .
stalin set her backpack down on a flat rock by the stream , and then motioned to gabriel .
`` ok , so we 're going to leave you here for a while , but do n't do anything foolish because we 'll be close by . ''
stalin cocked his head to one side and then said , `` we wo n't be peeking , though .
i mean , we 'll be far enough away ? ''
gabriel looked mortified and glared at stalin , who grinned lopsidedly and let gabriel lead him away .
gabriel turned back towards her with a cool grin .
`` do n't even think about disappearing , ok ?
i 've got equipment up here you 've never even heard of , and i 'll find you like that . ''
he snapped his long fingers , and then whirled back to continue off to some point in the banana plants where they would be waiting .
shivering in the coolness of the mountain air , wara quickly unzipped her backpack and dug out a change of clothes .
she pulled on black pants and a green tank top , then knelt next to the stream to try to wash the dried blood from her cheek and hair .
`` still there ? ''
a masculine voice hollered from somewhere in the bushes .
`` yes ! ''
she answered , biting her lip .
`` just a second , ok ? ''
`` just making sure ! ''
a different voice called back .
the frigid water burned her scalp and she realized she probably did have some cuts .
she remembered the side of her head smacking against something in the bus as she saw the wall of silver fire go spinning over her like a ceiling .
i must have gotten thrown out the window , she realized with a shiver .
but i hardly have any cuts .
maybe the explosion blew the glass away first .
nausea filled her as she imagined noah , arm ripped away from her shoulder as he was thrown further into the fiery bus by the explosion , while she was tossed out the window in the opposite direction , to safety .
`` i know women take a long time , but we really have to get back . ''
wara thought the too-cheerful voice was skinny gabriel 's .
she slogged across the spiky grass on her bare feet and scooped up her backpack .
`` ok , you can take me back now , '' she called sadly .
in a way , she wished they would just tie her up out here instead of bringing her back to the clearing .
here , sapphire blue butterflies were flitting across the racing surface of the stream , licking up crystal drops , dipping their spindly black legs into the water .
stalin and gabriel crunched their way out of the foliage , staring at her standing there in bare feet .
obviously deciding not to mention the feet again , stalin wordlessly took her backpack and motioned for her to follow them back to the camp .
sunshine hit her damp hair with a welcome warmth as she stepped out of the shade and into the clearing .
the sight of all the olive green tents quickly brought the chill back .
alejo was sitting on a rock , talking to a short guy with wire rim glasses and a little brown goatee .
`` take care of things for me a while , will you benjamin ? ''
alejo told him and wara was not happy with the way alejo 's eyes ran over her as stalin and gabriel passed her over to him .
alejo 's lips curved into a wry smile and he grabbed her arm , half-dragging her with him towards his tent .
she really had to focus on keeping her feet under her as alejo marched her along , then pushed her through the door of the tent .
inside , her dropped her arm and latched the tent door shut .
`` bad news , '' alejo frowned at her , then immediately began to pace .
wara blinked , noticing the bead of sweat that had popped out on his forehead just then .
what was going on ?
she started to ask , but alejo held up a hand to cut her off .
`` let me think , '' he ordered crossly .
wara bit her lip and sank down onto the sleeping back , hooking her hands around her raised knees .
a few loud shouts rang out in the clearing , and alejo muttered a very bad word .
animated conversation drew nearer outside the tent .
`` you did n't have to come back here , sir , '' someone said cheerfully .
`` we have everything under control-no worries . ''
a pause while a lower voice rumbled something .
then , `` yeah , she 's in there .
alejo 's been keeping her .
of course we understand that .
he just wanted to wait until the paraguayans were gone , not make a show of it . ''
alejo swore , glanced at the tightly-closed tent door , and then swore again .
he pressed one hand against his temple , and then fixed his eyes on wara , taking a deep breath .
`` i hope you can forgive me for this , '' he muttered , then swung down to yank her to her feet , pulling her against his chest .
panicked , wara tried to pull away , but alejo 's fingers dug into both of her wrists .
when he let go , she could n't bring her arms around from behind her back .
something thin and biting dug into her flesh , pricking her hands .
alejo had bound her wrists together .
she barely had time to register this fact before alejo threw an arm around her and dragged her tighter against his chest .
her rib cage slammed into his and he hooked a leg around the back of hers , preventing her escape .
before she knew it , he was kissing her , the scarce stubble of his chin like sandpaper against her cheek .
appalled , wara struggled against him , trying to free one of her legs to kick him hard .
it was no use ; she was caught like a worm on a hook .
heavy footsteps sounded outside , and sunlight flooded the tent as someone flapped open the door .
alejo took his time finishing the kiss , then finally let wara draw back and turn towards the door .
her vision swam as she took in the familiar figures of stalin and gabriel , along with two new faces watching them from just inside the tent .
a shower of sparks shot through her skull as alejo grabbed her hair and tilted her face upward towards his .
his eyes were glinting with a thousand specks of green fire , and she felt her face burn , absolutely humiliated .
alejo winked at her , then turned towards the guys at the door .
`` what is it ? ''
he grinned .
`` we 're a little busy right now .
i told the guys i 'd be right back , ishmael . ''
wara shivered at his mocking tone .
alejo released her hair and she turned to see the newcomers , face still flaming .
standing next to stalin stood a tanned figure , jaw hanging open as he gaped at her and alejo .
it was lzaro .
14 beet red sharp purple stars exploeded in front of wara 's eyes .
this could not be happening .
`` lzaro ? ''
she struggled to push away from alejo , all the while unable to take her gaze off lzaro in the doorway .
he was wearing the same kind of irish cap he had always worn , along with a casual sweater , jeans , and hiking boots .
his eyes were hidden behind the same sunglasses he had been wearing in the truck in coroico .
wara gasped loudly .
lzaro ripped the sunglasses from his eyes and gaped at alejo .
`` wara ? ''
lzaro said dumbly , gaze dashing back and forth between wara and alejo .
`` you 're the one they found ?
? ''
wara 's eyes were torn away from lzaro as alejo 's hand forced her head against his chest .
she tried to pull away angrily , then froze , weak-kneed , as she heard him unsheathe the hunting knife from his belt and saw its blade out of the corner of her eye .
remembering her position as captive , wara let herself hang limply against alejo as one of his hands continued digging into her cheek .
with the other , he pulled at the plastic ties around her wrists and cut her hands free .
through his t-shirt , wara could hear the steady , slow tempo of alejo 's heart , totally composed , completely devoid of the fear that caused her own heart to race .
she hated him for it .
by now , the bridge of lzaro 's nose had turned beet red , and his fists clenched at his sides .
`` that 's my girlfriend , you idiot ! ''
he growled .
alejo started with surprise and a moment of silence rang over the tent .
`` your ex-girlfriend , is n't it ? ''
he finally said coolly .
`` this is the missionary you used to go out with ?
well you should thank me then for doing you a favor .
her boyfriend is dead , along with salazar .
do n't get your knickers all up in a knot .
c'mon , let 's take this outside ! ''
alejo 's fingers dug into her arm as he dragged her through the tent door .
the others drew back to make room .
lzaro , apparently not satisfied in the least with alejo 's calm explanation , swore foully and then rushed him , slamming into him from behind .
wara felt the momentum of the push twisting her off her feet .
an arm caught her around the shoulders , yanking her back up to standing as alejo released her .
she saw alejo land on both palms just before hitting the ground and release a lightening backwards kick that caught lzaro under the chin , spinning him around with a grunt .
wara struggled to look behind her and realized that the man now holding her was benjamin , the one with the wire-rim glasses .
one forearm clamped tightly around her neck , threatening to cut off her airway if she moved .
wara was trapped , watching as lzaro and alejo flew at each other again in some kind of martial arts stance , each taking a few violent punches .
like alejo had said earlier , most of the guys who had been up here on the mountain were already gone .
an older guy wara had n't seen before had appeared , however , watching the scene with displeasure , arms crossed in front of his chest .
the man was actually much older than the others , wearing olive green pants with multiple pockets , a t-shirt , and one of those khaki vests full of zippers and flaps favored by foreign journalists in a war zone .
a neatly-trimmed beard peppered with gray gave the impression that he could be a kindly grandfather , except for how his eyebrows were now knit into the perfect v , scowling first at her , then at the fight .
confused and numb by all the blows and shouts , wara 's mind finally registered that alejo had launched himself from the ground with a somersault and brutally knocked lzaro to the dirt with a kick to the ribs .
spinning in a half circle , lzaro fell with a thud , swore at the attempt to rise , then gave up .
`` enough ? ''
alejo panted , sweat running down his back .
`` i like you , che , and i really hope that 's enough .
i did n't know , i promise you .
just for you , i wo n't touch her again . ''
`` yes , i think fun time is over . ''
the authoritative voice of the grandfatherly newcomer carried over the group .
`` asalaam alaikum , ishmael . ''
wara saw alejo grin at the older man .
then nazaret 's brother began speaking a different language , clipped , as if reporting facts .
lzaro was painfully picking himself up off the ground , a bloody gash running above his right eyebrow .
he walked gingerly towards the rest of the group , keeping a wary distance from alejo , listening .
from time to time he threw a guarded glance at wara .
soon after their little conference , the older guy turned his beady gaze back on wara .
she was still pinned against benjamin , eyes barely slit open , for the first time ever not trying to figure out what language everyone was speaking .
sweat dripped down her back and she was terrified .
`` i am so sorry , '' the older guy was saying with a smile in smooth spanish , `` that this has been allowed to drag on this long .
i 'm sure you are a nice girl.
``
the smile died away , and he unsheathed a long , curved hunting knife with a smooth whine , turning his gaze towards lzaro .
`` my son , it 's time for us to move on , '' he explained patiently to lzaro in accented spanish .
`` apart from being a witness to the bus accident , she can identify you . ''
a trickle of blood from the wound alejo left was slowly winding down lzaro 's face like a shiny maroon caterpillar .
he gaped dumbly at the knife that the man now extended towards him `` lzaro , '' wara stammered , heart slamming against benjamin 's arm .
the fact that lzaro , too , was here , part of this , was absolutely surreal .
`` how could you do this ?
noah was your friend , was n't he ?
how could you want to kill him ?
he never did anything to you !
``
lzaro just stared at her , possibly realizing for the first time that noah too had been on the bus .
he glanced at the old guy , nervously , and his hand closest to the offered knife twitched .
wara took in that gabriel , standing next to lzaro , appeared ready to vomit , one hand clutching his throat , staring at wara 's neck .
feeling faint , wara realized that they were going to slit her throat .
lzaro stumbled a slight step back , and at that moment wara saw the flash of the knife against the sun as the old guy moved straight towards her , impatient .
she felt benjamin 's grip on her tighten as he said , `` i 've got her , mr .
khan . ''
and then , from the side , alejo was moving forward , marching towards her with a face full of calm fury .
the fist that connected with her face shot white hot rays of pain through her head , splattering her vision with colored lights .
benjamin must have released her just as alejo 's punch slammed into her nose .
wara twisted around backwards on lifeless knees , then crumpled to the ground with a jolt of fire .
evil lights flashed in front of her eyes , and she wanted to pass out , die , anything .
no such luck .
wara shrieked in agony as someone grabbed her hair and pulled her to her feet , wrapping an arm around her shoulders to secure her against them because it was obvious that there was no way she could stand .
oh god , please help !
get me through this part ?
`` stand up ! ''
a voice grated into her ear , and wara 's heart sank as she realized it was alejo she heard herself breathing loudly , vision swimming with the pain .
alejo yanked her hair back and wara saw the silver of a razor-sharp knife blade , only an inch away from her exposed neck .
`` we have extenuating circumstances here , sir , '' she heard alejo say calmly .
`` gabriel should n't have to watch this .
i 'll take her into the forest . ''
he dragged her in front of him so her bare feet skimmed the grass , then barked into her ear , `` walk ! ''
to the other men he called , `` we 'll meet in town ! ''
alejo pushed her ahead of him into the cover of the mossy forest , dragging wara along as he stomped through the grass .
her vision had cleared enough to make out the trees , but everything still shimmered and she was sure if alejo were n't holding her up she would have just dropped to the ground .
she absently realized the salty stuff dripping across her lips was blood and that her nose was probably broken .
may nazaret never hear about this , about what her brother has done .
they pushed quite a ways into the forest , ducking under hanging tree fronds and circling giant banana plants .
then wara 's foot hooked on a big root and she went hurdling towards the forest floor .
the vision of the flashing knife waving near her neck told her alejo was going down with her .
wara 's breath pumped out of her chest with a sharp gasp as his body slammed on top of hers , pushing her face into the raspy grass .
a rough hand clamped across her mouth , sending rays of pains surging though her skull .
`` do n't scream , '' he whispered lowly in her ear .
`` whatever you do , do n't scream .
i 'm not going to hurt you . ''
breathing heavily , alejo rolled off of wara and sat listlessly on the ground by her side , one arm propped up on his knee .
in a daze , wara rolled over onto her back painfully , unable to stop shaking .
her eyes were beginning to swell .
she gingerly wiped her sleeve across her face in an attempt to clear away some of the blood that was still flowing from her nose and stifled a sob at how much it hurt .
god , what is happening ?
`` you 're going to kill me later , then ? ''
even though alejo had told her to be quiet , she had to know .
he had been staring off into the jungle , but now his gaze jerked sharply back to her .
wara winced and raised her arm , cringing .
he did n't hit her again , and she opened her eyes in time to see alejo hurl the knife off into the forest as if it were a deadly scorpion .
he turned away from her and threw up onto the prickly tropical grass , gasped for breath , and then threw up again .
finally he lifted his head , white as a sheet , and wiped his mouth shakily on his sleeve .
`` i 'm so sorry , '' he choked .
`` i told you i was n't going to hurt you .
oh god , i 'm so sorry .
nothing 's going to happen to you now , ok .
i 'm gon na take you where it 's safe . ''
wara started to feel everything around her fading away .
maybe she was dying .
the giant pine tree branches overhead were starting to sway as if a lazy breeze ran through them .
no , that was ridiculous .
she could n't be dying from a broken nose .
but she felt so dizzy , and simply could n't move .
what was nazaret 's brother saying ?
that he was sorry he had broken her nose ?
why ?
he had n't looked sorry a few minutes ago when he did it .
and what was with the puking ?
everything is spinning around so fast .
wara vaguely realized that she had been scooped up and was moving through the trees .
alejo must be carrying her .
she slumped against his shoulder , and the sounds of crickets singing among the banana trees and grass crunching underfoot slowly faded away .
15 pale she felt herself gently swaying back and forth , face hugging something scratchy and warm .
for several minutes she drifted blissfully between semi-awake and half-asleep , trying to pry her eyes open but at the same time being quite sure she did not want to wake up .
she remembered passing out , and that alejo had hit her , and yeah , the pain was definitely still there .
wara gasped and jerked wide awake , rolling into a sitting position and looking over her shoulder .
he was still here , sitting with arms propped on his knees .
wara grabbed her head as black and silver flashed across her eyes in a violent parade .
the sunlight was blinding .
they were in the back of a truck , surrounded by high wooden slats .
alejo was staring off to one side , watching the road through gaps between the rough boards .
he turned towards her when he heard her groan , but wara could only close her eyes and take deep breaths , trying to keep the world from spinning around backwards .
freakily , alejo 's expression had completely changed from the way he had looked at her with remorse in the jungle for those few minutes after he had thrown the knife away into the wild .
now , his face had settled into such a serious mask that wara was glad she was too dizzy to look at him .
those intense hazel eyes were just plain scary .
she moaned again and weakly flopped back into a fetal position in the straw of the floor of the truck , her back to nazaret 's brother .
he had given her a concussion ; she was sure of it .
against her closed eyes , she saw again the scene in the clearing of the camp , alejo 's face as he swung at her in rage .
the rest of the blank faces as they simply stared .
`` why did n't you kill me ? ''
wara barely recognized the croaking voice that came out of her own mouth .
she cleared her throat slowly and curled up tighter in her corner of the truck bed , too weak to do anything else but wait for his answer .
after a long pause , alejo answered her , voice detached but non-threatening .
`` i never wanted to kill you .
i just could n't let you know that , or you would have given away the escape plan . ''
`` what ? ''
wara squeaked .
`` my friends are very smart .
they would have been able to tell if you trusted me .
i never meant to have to hit you '' -- his voice faltered for a second there- '' but it was the only way to get you out of there with what i had to work with .
i was in charge of the rest there at the camp .
but that man who showed up with lzaro is ishmael khan , our handler .
he 's our boss , and as soon as he arrived , i knew that you were as good as dead . ''
wara frowned as alejo went on .
`` ishmael was already coming at you with the knife , because lzaro would n't do it .
i had to stop him cold in his tracks , and hitting you was the only way i could think of .
two more seconds and he would have cut your throat .
gabriel was robbed and had his throat slit in pakistan a month ago , and lzaro was involved with you , so i had a good excuse to take you out of their sight and eliminate you .
they could n't have handled it .
and because you were ?
incapacitated , benjamin and the khan assumed they did n't need to come with me to keep you from escaping .
thank god they did n't . ''
there was a long pause as wara tried to focus on the details of what alejo had just said .
he had to break her nose to save her life ?
`` you broke my nose ! ''
she blurted out , then gasped at the nausea waves produced by the effort of shouting .
`` i wo n't be able to tell if your nose if broken until the swelling goes down , '' alejo said , still maddeningly calm .
`` if it 's broken , i can set it .
i 've set a lot of broken noses , including mine . ''
there was no way she was letting alejo touch her swollen nose .
she dared to raise a hand to her face and realized that there was n't nearly as much dried blood as she remembered .
had alejo cleaned blood from her face while she was sleeping ?
the thought made her frown .
she just lay there , slumped into the straw , not knowing what exactly she was allowed to ask in the presence of a terrorist who was also the brother of her best friend .
how did she address the man who had broken her nose and then saved her life ?
wara found she did n't care anymore ; everything had become much too confusing .
`` so , who are you ? ''
she finally asked , slowly working her way over onto her back .
a painful blush spread across her face as the memory of alejo kissing her in the tent played across her mind .
she supposed it was part of his lovely escape plan , but she still did n't like thinking about it at all .
`` you have a handler ?
are you , like , a hit man ? ''
sitting cross-legged next to her , alejo snorted , a frustrated , annoyed kind of sound .
`` no , i 'm not a 'hit man ' !
i work for a muslim organization that works for justice by fighting against the bad guys , wara . ''
`` but you have a bible .
a really big one .
do you even read that thing ? ''
of course he did n't read it .
he was a muslim .
and a murderer .
we fight against the bad guys , wara , alejo had said .
well , wara was pretty sure nazaret 's brother was confused about the definition of `` bad guy . ''
alejo sighed and pressed his lips together .
`` i 'm not a muslim anymore , '' he finally said .
wara glanced at him , blinking away the confusion .
alejo looked away at the wooden truck slats .
`` i was , but now i 've decided to follow jesus '' wara did n't think she could have been more shocked if he had proposed marriage right then and there .
this guy was a nutcase !
`` how can you follow jesus and ?
go around killing people ? ''
she demanded .
she tried to scoff , but the effort just hurt her nose .
she settled for scowling at him .
alejo turned towards her sharply .
`` we do n't just go around killing people .
i have high-level training from hezbollah 's militant wing , and i take advantage of that to get rid of the guys who hurt the poor and oppressed .
i do things that i know are wrong , but it 's worse , wara , to just sit around and do nothing while you watch innocent people suffer .
we 're not terrorists . ''
wara was n't convinced .
`` so you follow jesus by killing people . ''
alejo cut her off .
`` a couple weeks ago , my good friend gabriel was robbed and they slit his throat .
a few seconds later , a pakistani man came along and found him lying there .
he could have just left him alone-it was really inconvenient for him to help .
but he did help him and he saved gabriel 's life , like in the story jesus told about the samaritan . ''
alejo played absently with the fringe on a canvas bag of oranges that was part of the truck 's cargo .
`` what if that pakistani guy had come along while gabriel was still being attacked ?
should he , or the good samaritan , have just politely stepped aside and waited until the thieves finished , before stepping up to see if the victim was still alive and they could help ?
or if they were stronger than the thieves and had a gun , should they have saved the man from being robbed and nearly killed in the first place ? ''
wara frowned , remembering gabriel with the friendly green eyes who had taken her down to the creek and how he had one hand to his throat as he watched them about to kill wara .
`` jesus said to love your enemies , '' she finally managed .
no matter how much using violence seemed to be justified , the results could never be worth it , could they ?
what about noah ?
`` i know . ''
alejo was still frowning darkly .
`` but he also said he came to set the captives free , and to show love to everyone .
as horrible as it is , sometimes those two commands just ca n't both happen at the same time . ''
alejo was morosely silent for a moment , and wara squinted up into the streaked sky .
they were driving under the leafy branches of clustered palm trees now , and the sunlight flashed onto her face , then disappeared behind the temporary shade of their latticed leaves .
he could have killed me , but instead he saved my life , wara realized .
she would like to think alejo was just insane , but some of what he said made sense .
she just lay there , squinting against the bright sky , trying not to think about how much everything hurt .
`` what about you ? ''
she finally asked to break the unpleasant silence .
`` you were in charge .
are n't you going to get in big trouble for this ? ''
she tried to meet his eyes , hoping he would see that she was grateful , despite the possible broken nose , several unwanted kisses , and the fact that he was the one who had nearly killed her on the bus in the first place .
but wara found alejo staring off at the pile of blue canvas orange sacks , looking much more serious than she had hoped .
`` actually we are in big trouble , '' he answered a little mechanically , eyes not meeting hers .
`` i 'm going to keep you safe , i swear it .
but first there 's something i have to do .
i think that ?
i 'm pretty sure that ?
`` alejo stopped and swallowed hard .
`` in punishment for me betraying the group , i think they 're going to try to kill my family . ''
wara suddenly could n't breathe .
`` what ? ''
she croaked .
a wave of ice engulfed her .
his family .
the martirs .
`` i know they 're going to look for them . ''
alejo shook his head bitterly .
`` i was a leader ; i know everything .
there 's no way the khan is n't going to be furious .
he saw me as family and i betrayed him . ''
`` nazaret ? ''
wara whispered .
a shiver ran from her toes to her scalp .
`` they would hurt them ?
what are we going to do ? ''
`` if we can warn them first , they can run . ''
alejo 's voice was flat and a sheen of sweat painted his forehead .
wara was horrified .
`` but ?
how much time do we have ? ''
`` when you heard us talking in pashto , ishmael was telling us to kill you right away and throw your body in the waterfall that 's about a half-hour walk into the forest .
the body would have drifted down into the main river , which runs through the canyon near the bus ?
accident .
i told them i 'd meet them down in coroico .
i say we have two more hours before they start to wonder , three before they realize what i 've done . ''
alejo rested his arms on his knees and hid his face .
`` oh god , '' wara heard him whisper raggedly , shoulders slumped with despair .
`` what have i done ? ''
16 canary yellow `` bajamos ! ''
alejo 's no-nonsense voice boomed as he banged on the side of the truck through the slats a few minutes later .
whoever was driving must have heard his announcement that the people in the back wanted off , because the truck 's gears shifted down and the heavy vehicle scraped to a stop .
wara 's head hurt even more now , thanks to the shocking news about the martirs .
the rusty back gate of the truck clanged open revealing a young guy with a che guevara baseball hat and greasy black ponytail waiting for them to get out .
alejo hauled wara to her feet , and for a moment everything shimmered violet and green .
her legs were n't feeling so weak anymore , and she took a few shaky steps across the filthy truck bed , avoiding the giant sacks stuffed full of tropical fruit .
alejo passed the driver a red hundred boliviano note , then lowered wara onto the ground and jumped out behind her .
wara heard the truck grind into gear and chug away behind them .
`` i can walk now . ''
wara realized alejo 's arm was around her waist .
she shrugged away from him and began to pick her way carefully through the tangled mass of plants .
`` ya , '' alejo said .
the spanish equivalent of `` fine . ''
wara glanced at him and saw he was still sweating bullets , the weight of the world on his shoulders .
could it really be possible that his family could die because he had become part of this group ?
she wrinkled her nose painfully .
`` where are we going now ? ''
she whispered , not sure if there might be bad guys lurking about in the wild .
alejo seemed startled by her sudden question , but he did n't slow his stride .
`` there 's an airplane here .
we can take it to get to cochabamba and warn my family . ''
wara struggled not to stumble at the reminder that someone could hurt the martirs .
`` is there a pilot ? ''
`` i can fly it . ''
alejo 's answer was clipped but not impatient .
wara frowned and shifted her gaze over to him , not sure what to think .
alejo apparently read her thoughts because his mouth twisted wryly and he said , `` i fly the plane for work , wara .
this is the only airplane that brings tourists in and out of coroico , so we make good money .
it 's not because i 'm plotting to fly the thing into a building like 9/11 . ''
before she could answer him , they came into a little clearing holding a squatty adobe house half-shaded by a thick mass of arching orange trees .
a battered blue motorcycle leaned against a sleek banana plant , and a gaggle of scraggly chickens pecked lazily in the powdery dirt .
there appeared to be a larger clearing beyond the house , and sure enough , a straw-colored airplane was sheltered under a structure made of corrugated tin sheets .
and in the distance , a spacious , cleared area with dirt tracks down the center : a runway .
alejo hollered out a greeting in spanish and a stout , balding guy wearing a stained white undershirt swaggered out from behind a sheet fluttering over the house 's open door .
`` alejo ! ''
the man 's ample face instantly spread into a grin .
he covered the distance between himself and his visitors quickly , clasping alejo 's hand firmly in his own beefy one .
there was a tattoo of a mermaid with red scales and a set of panpipes on his upper arm .
wara knew she should be wondering who this guy was , but thinking about the martirs made her feel dizzy .
her face still hurt .
a lot .
`` che , how 's it goin ' ? ''
the guy with the mermaid tattoo slapped alejo on the shoulder .
`` you gon na take helda up ? ''
he turned to greet the girl at alejo 's side but stopped short of the kiss on the cheek when he saw the condition of wara 's face .
the balding man took her hand carefully instead and held it , frowning back at alejo in concern .
`` che , what have you been doing to this woman ?
i hope it was n't you , eh ? ''
he was trying to joke , but the alarm in the guy 's eyes said he suspected it was indeed alejo who was responsible for the condition of wara 's nose .
she suddenly felt ashamed , standing there with bare , filthy feet and dried blood caked on her tank top .
alejo laid a hand on her shoulder , and she cringed , stepping away .
`` boris , i 'm taking her to the doctor . ''
alejo saw her glaring at him and smiled tightly .
`` since i 'm going into cochabamba anyway on business . ''
`` well , good . ''
the fat , mermaid tattoo guy named boris nodded , shooting another worried glance at wara .
`` do n't forget .
you 'll bring me back helda tomorrow ?
maybe bring some tourists back ? ''
`` sure , if we 're lucky .
but now i 've got ta fly like a bat outta hell .
do you think we could get her up in five minutes ? ''
`` why not ? ''
boris shrugged and his belly jiggled under the white undershirt .
`` on the way back we can have a beer .
i wo n't tell the khan .
just sign the log please , and i 'll get her ready . ''
boris winked and pulled a tattered notebook sporting the fading image of the incredible hulk out of his back pocket .
alejo pulled the lid off a ballpoint pen with his teeth , scribbled something in the notebook , and flipped the pen and notebook back towards boris .
the portly airplane owner whipped around with amazing agility and started towards the airplane , shouting instructions into a small black radio he had somehow produced and now held up to his mouth .
`` boris ! ''
alejo yelled after him .
boris turned around distractedly as he dictated what appeared to be flight coordinates to someone across the radio waves .
`` let your daughter lend some clothes to this poor girl . ''
wara wanted to sink into the ground as alejo motioned towards her with a sheepish grin .
`` c'mon !
i 'll bring her something new back from the market in cochabamba when i come . ''
boris must have nodded his approval , because wara heard alejo holler `` gracias '' , then motioned her forward towards the ramshackle house .
he yanked the blue-checked sheet draped over the doorway aside so wara could enter the house .
she clenched her fists as she squeezed past alejo 's sweat-soaked t-shirt .
the room just inside the door was cramped , graced with a burnt orange couch with torn upholstery and a few armchairs .
an antique wooden shelf holding a murky fish tank and an army of porcelain clowns and teddy bears was stuffed in a corner .
with the low glass coffee table in the middle of the room there was barely space to turn around .
a wicker ceiling fan swirled above , lop-sided and losing the battle to cool the room from the tropical heat .
a chubby teenage girl with deep red lip liner and a black brittany spears tank top with rhinestones stuck her head out of the doorway of one of the back rooms .
`` hey , alexis , '' alejo greeted the girl .
`` what 's up ?
say , your dad said i could ask you a big favor .
my friend here would like to borrow some of your clothes .
i told your dad i 'd bring you something new back from the market in cochabamba . ''
alexis kissed alejo on the cheek but looked skeptical about his offer .
she raised one plucked eyebrow and took in wara 's bloody face and disgusting appearance .
`` my dad said that ? ''
wara squared her jaw , determined to get through this , to get to the martirs and make sure they were safe .
alejo tried his most convincing smile .
`` c'mon , i bet i 've got good taste . ''
`` fine , no problem , alejo . ''
alexis shook her head and rolled her eyes .
she took one last glance at wara but did n't seem to be concerned as she sauntered into the back room .
apparently boris ' little adobe house was the kind of place bloodied strangers could show up and no one would blink an eye .
wara was feeling weak again and wished she could sink down into the faded orange sofa .
a sudden thought halted her midstride towards the couch .
`` i know the numbers of all your family 's cell phones .
we can call them .
good old alexis must have a phone we can use , right ? ''
`` nope , '' alejo shook his head firmly .
`` i 'm not about to use the cell phones here -- -could be tracked afterwards .
my sat phone stayed with stalin , since he had it on him when i went into the tent to ?
talk with you right before the khan showed up . ''
`` what about internet ? ''
wara was feeling desperate , like she was trying to run through quicksand , not able to move a single step forward .
there had to be some way to warn nazaret 's family , before alejo and wara could make it to cochabamba in the plane outside .
`` yeah , there 's internet . ''
`` well , i can catch your sister on facebook .
she 's online like all the time .
she 's got to be online right now . ''
`` my sister still uses that ?
are n't there social networking pages that are a little more ?
modern ? ''
`` yeah , well .
some of us still use it . ''
alejo led wara into the first side room , where , sure enough , there was a very sleek , cobalt-colored computer sitting atop a battered bamboo desk .
`` do n't we have to ask ? ''
wara looked up at him .
alejo was opening a little black fridge in the corner of the office .
he pulled out a bottle of very cold water , twisted off the lid and handed it to wara .
`` here .
drink this .
nope , me and my friends kind of half live here . ''
alejo was already flipping on switches and in a few seconds wara was sitting before a picture of alexis in a canary yellow bikini , along with several swarthy teenage boys , next to one of the cascading waterfalls just outside of coroico .
nice .
she gulped half the water bottle , then signed into facebook while alejo drank the rest .
`` yes !
i knew it ! ''
she hissed triumphantly .
the little green icon blinked back at her , telling her nazaret was signed in , as usual .
that girl was always on facebook .
alexis came in , winked at alejo and tried to strike a sultry pose .
`` bring me a pair of really tight jeans , ok alejo ?
you 'd better take a good look so you can remember my size . ''
she unceremoniously dumped a pile of clothes on the desk , posed again , then scoffed and stalked away when alejo did n't even look at her .
wara was typing furiously .
`` nazaret , are you there ?
?
please , let me know if you are there , quickly .
it 's urgente ! ''
ten eternal seconds passed , and then the reply message blinked , `` wara ?
?
?
are you ok ? ''
by now , nazaret must have heard about the accident .
eduardo and the australians must have told the martirs that she and noah had been on the bus .
but there was no time for beating around the bush .
`` i 'm ok. you could never guess who is here with me right now .
i am here with your brother .
alejandro . ''
more time clicked by , and wara could n't even begin to imagine the look on her friend 's face .
finally a single word came back from nazaret .
`` what ?
?
?
?
? ''
`` there 's no time to explain it to you right now , but i 'm here with your brother , and he was involved with some people ?
.anyway , he knows you are in trouble .
some really bad people are going to come looking for your family to kill you .
you have to run .
now ! ''
`` tell them to go to the hostel salta , '' alejo whispered , leaning over wara and gripping the edge of the desk .
`` alejo says to go to the hostel salta now ! ''
wara 's fingers flew across the keys .
`` do they remember where it is ? ''
`` you know where it is , right ? ''
apparently the martir family had experience with the place , maybe knew the owners .
a pause .
`` yes , i remember . ''
wara could almost see tears slipping down nazaret 's cheeks .
`` they need to register as the rojas family , '' alejo told her .
`` well meet them there . ''
as wara typed , she heard the airplane being fired up outside and wished she was already in it , soaring towards cochabamba .
`` they have to turn their cell phones off and leave them behind or they will be tracked , '' alejo whispered lowly , and she passed along the instructions .
`` tell my brother i love him . ''
wara glanced down and saw that nazaret had left one final message , and that she was gone .
for once , her status was listed as offline .
it looked very final .
alejo was staring at what his sister had typed .
he slid his hands over to the keyboard and nudged wara 's out of the way .
`` i 'm erasing this conversation , '' he said .
`` they 're going to come here when they realize i 'm gone . ''
one last click of the keyboard , and then alejo scooped up the clothes alexis had left and laid them on wara 's lap .
`` put these on in here , '' he instructed .
`` i 'm going to help boris ready the plane . ''
wordlessly , wara gripped the pile of clothes and forced herself to rise from the computer chair as alejo closed the door behind him .
the windows in the small room were covered by rickety bamboo blinds .
alexis had been so kind as to donate a pair of gray jogging pants that had sparkly pink lips on the rear and said diva .
the shirt was orange with a koala , or wombat , or some such thing cheerily stuffing a stalk of bamboo into its mouth .
wara managed to put everything on and slipped into a pair of white rubber flip flops with large silver jewels lining the straps .
this is a lot of bling .
underneath the jewels , her smudged toes wiggled back at her , adorned with a myriad of henna flowers .
wara clamped one hand on the bamboo desk unsteadily as her memory flashed back to the pickup truck and noah sitting at her side , just about to see her henna tattoos when lzaro began to speak .
go outside , she ordered herself , gritting her teeth .
get on the plane and find the martirs .
just find them .
17 brick red the white toyota corolla taxi squeezed into a spot along the curb , directly in front of an elderly man with his wooden cart full of sea green chinese fingernail clippers and long tubes of colgate toothpaste .
alejo paid the taxi driver in a hurry , then nearly took out the corner of the elderly man 's decrepit cart as he yanked open the back door on wara 's side and tried to help her out .
she stared at his outstretched hand as if it were a poisonous millipede and he staggered back , nearly tripping on the cart 's metal wheel .
wara frowned at him and eased herself out of the taxi , obviously in pain and very angry .
they both headed for the steps of the hostal salta .
the place was just as alejo remembered it , back when his dad 's friend from church used to run it .
three unlit stars sagged on a brick red wall splattered with graffiti .
the hostel was six skinny floors , straight up , smack dab in the center of the market .
it was now sundown , and despite the chill , alejo felt feverish .
if something happened to his family , he would never forgive himself .
inside , wara veered off towards the sofas in the waiting area , just like he 'd instructed her in the taxi .
they needed to not call attention to themselves , and walking into a hotel with a swollen , purple nose was a good way to make someone remember you .
alejo signed the check-in papers and got the key , making animated conversation about the latest soccer game with the kid at the counter , all the while dying inside .
`` got the keys , honey , '' he called to wara , throwing her one of his best grins .
`` ready to go upstairs ? ''
the guy behind the counter must think he was the cheapest guy in the world , bringing his date to a dive like this .
but cheap hostels did n't ask for copies of your id .
alejo slung an arm around wara 's shoulder and pulled her into his side as they made for the stairs , hoping it looked romantic instead of like he was trying to hide her .
wara panted right behind him up three flights of stairs .
he had gotten them the room right next to pablo martir .
alias pablo rojas .
his family had made it here .
and he was going to have to face them .
alejo stopped in front of room 303 and rapped on the door , blinking away a bead of sweat that ran through his lashes and into his eye .
a hurried grinding noise sounded inside as the door quivered .
`` si ? ''
wara whispered loudly through the door , shoulders sagging with relief .
`` it 's me .
we 're here . ''
the door opened with a soft whoosh , revealing an entire clan of people , gathered behind alejo 's father in a nervous cluster .
alejo blinked .
and stared .
pablo martir looked the same , except for the sprinkling of silver in his jet black hair .
he was a little shorter than alejo , but the square jaw that the pastor clenched as he stared at alejo was the same one alejo saw in the mirror every day .
`` hello , '' he stammered .
then , `` c'mon , we should get inside '' .
head spinning , he guided wara by the arm through the doorway as his parents and all the children scuttled out of his way .
alejo closed the door with one foot and slid the deadbolt into place .
his mother stood there , older but still beautiful .
had he really not seen his mother in so many years ?
noly martir was staring at him as if she were seeing a ghost .
`` i-i 'm glad that you 're here , '' he said hoarsely .